---
address: ghana.education.university
description: Ghanaian universities in their official English names. Ghana's higher education is older than most of the region's — the University of Ghana at Legon opened in 1948, nine years before independence, and KNUST in 1952 — and Ghanaian degrees have long been taken across West Africa, which is why several of these names turn up in Nigerian and Liberian records too. The list keeps the distinction a Ghanaian record cares about. PUBLIC universities, funded by the state and the ones a national record most often cites, led by the "big three" a Ghanaian names without thinking: Legon, KNUST and Cape Coast. TECHNICAL and SPECIALIST publics with narrow mandates — Mines and Technology at Tarkwa for the goldfields, Health and Allied Sciences at Ho, Energy and Natural Resources at Sunyani, Professional Studies for accountancy and business. And PRIVATE universities, mostly founded since the late 1990s and mostly church-backed, of which Ashesi is the outlier with an international reputation of its own. All are accredited by the Ghana Tertiary Education Commission, which replaced the National Accreditation Board and the National Council for Tertiary Education in 2020. NAMES CHURNED SHARPLY IN 2020 and old records will not match: four new public universities were created that year out of existing colleges, and three of them carry long personal names Ghanaians never say in full — C. K. Tedam at Navrongo, S. D. Dombo at Wa, and Akenten Appiah-Menka at Kumasi, universally CKT-UTAS, SDD-UBIDS and AAMUSTED. The contraction is what a Ghanaian writes and says: Legon, KNUST, UCC, UEW, UDS, UMaT, UPSA, GIMPA, UHAS, UENR.
locale: en
---
University of Ghana
Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology
University of Cape Coast
University of Education, Winneba
University for Development Studies
University of Mines and Technology
University of Professional Studies, Accra
Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration
University of Health and Allied Sciences
University of Energy and Natural Resources
C. K. Tedam University of Technology and Applied Sciences
Simon Diedong Dombo University of Business and Integrated Development Studies
Akenten Appiah-Menka University of Skills Training and Entrepreneurial Development
University of Environment and Sustainable Development
Ghana Communication Technology University
University of Media, Arts and Communication
Ashesi University
Central University
Valley View University
Pentecost University
Methodist University Ghana
Presbyterian University Ghana
Catholic University of Ghana
Accra Technical University
Kumasi Technical University
Takoradi Technical University
