---
address: laos.education.university
description: The universities of Laos in Lao — and it is a SHORT LIST BECAUSE THE COUNTRY HAS A SHORT LIST, not because this is a sample. Laos has five national universities and that is the whole of its public university sector: ມະຫາວິທະຍາໄລແຫ່ງຊາດລາວ in ວຽງຈັນ, founded in 1996 and by far the largest with about 14,000 students; ມະຫາວິທະຍາໄລສຸພານຸວົງ in ຫຼວງພະບາງ (2003), named after the "Red Prince" who became the first president of the Lao PDR; ມະຫາວິທະຍາໄລສະຫວັນນະເຂດ (2005); ມະຫາວິທະຍາໄລວິທະຍາສາດສຸຂະພາບ (2006), the health-sciences university, which was split out of the national university and is where every Lao doctor is trained; and ມະຫາວິທະຍາໄລຈຳປາສັກ in ປາກເຊ (2009). Treating this as a sample of a larger sector will overstate Lao higher education by an order of magnitude. THE HISTORY IS WHAT A FOREIGN READER WILL MISS. Laos had NO university at all until 1996. The country was administered in French, its elite was educated in Vientiane secondary schools and then abroad, the Royal Institute of Law and Administration and a scatter of specialist colleges did not amount to a university, and after 1975 much of the educated class left. The national university was assembled in 1996 by merging those colleges, so every Lao institution here is younger than most people using this pack — a Lao academic CV that shows a degree earned before 1996 shows a degree earned in Vietnam, the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Thailand or France, and that is the normal case for senior Lao professionals rather than an anomaly. NOT IN THIS LIST, AND SAID PLAINLY RATHER THAN GUESSED: the private colleges (Lao-Korean College, Rattana Business Administration College and a few dozen more), the teacher-training colleges and the polytechnics, whose exact Lao legal names could not be confirmed from a Lao source — an invented Lao spelling in a data pack is undetectable afterwards, so they were left out rather than transliterated on the spot. The generic word ມະຫາວິທະຍາໄລ belongs to the language pack; the institutions are Laos's. Lao script runs without spaces between words, so ມະຫາວິທະຍາໄລວິທະຍາສາດສຸຂະພາບ is one unbroken token to anything that splits on whitespace, and at 27 codepoints it is 81 bytes in UTF-8.
locale: lo
---
ມະຫາວິທະຍາໄລແຫ່ງຊາດລາວ
ມະຫາວິທະຍາໄລວິທະຍາສາດສຸຂະພາບ
ມະຫາວິທະຍາໄລສຸພານຸວົງ
ມະຫາວິທະຍາໄລສະຫວັນນະເຂດ
ມະຫາວິທະຍາໄລຈຳປາສັກ
