In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how in the world she was to get out again.
How brave they'll all think me at home!
Would the fall never come to an end?
"I wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?" she said aloud.
How funny it'll seem to come out among the people that walk with their heads downward!
There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began talking again.
I wish you were down here with me!
There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
Oh, how I wish I could shut up like a telescope!
For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible.
It was all very well to say "Drink me," but the wise little Alice was not going to do that in a hurry.
"What a curious feeling!" said Alice; "I must be shutting up like a telescope."
"Come, there's no use in crying like that!" said Alice to herself, rather sharply; "I advise you to leave off this minute!"
So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.
I'm sure I shan't be able!
And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
And how odd the directions will look!
Alice's Right Foot, Esq., Hearthrug, near the Fender, (_with Alice's love_).
After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
How queer everything is to-day!
And yesterday things went on just as usual.
I wonder if I've been changed in the night?
Let me think: was I the same when I got up this morning?
I almost think I can remember feeling a little different.
But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in the world am I?
Besides, she's she, and I'm I, and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!
I'll try if I know all the things I used to know.
Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!
However, the Multiplication Table doesn't signify: let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Rome--no, that's all wrong, I'm certain!
I must have been changed for Mabel!
"How cheerfully he seems to grin, How neatly spread his claws, And welcome little fishes in With gently smiling jaws!"
No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm Mabel, I'll stay down here!
It'll be no use their putting their heads down and saying 'Come up again, dear!'
I shall only look up and say 'Who am I then?
"How can I have done that?" she thought.
"I must be growing small again."
As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.
"I wish I hadn't cried so much!" said Alice, as she swam about, trying to find her way out.
That will be a queer thing, to be sure!
The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.
"Oh, I beg your pardon!" cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the poor animal's feelings.
"I quite forgot you didn't like cats."
"Not like cats!" cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice.
"Would you like cats if you were me?"
And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
"We won't talk about her any more if you'd rather not."
"We indeed!" cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his tail.
Our family always hated cats: nasty, low, vulgar things!
"I won't indeed!" said Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of conversation.
"Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?"
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly brown hair!
For the Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.
Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the shore.
They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the Mouse in the middle.
Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon.
This is the driest thing I know.
Silence all round, if you please!
"Ugh!" said the Lory, with a shiver.
"I beg your pardon!" said the Mouse, frowning, but very politely: "Did you speak?"
"Not I!" said the Lory hastily.
"I thought you did," said the Mouse.
"Found what?" said the Duck.
"Found it," the Mouse replied rather crossly: "of course you know what 'it' means."
William's conduct at first was moderate.
"As wet as ever," said Alice in a melancholy tone: "it doesn't seem to dry me at all."
"Speak English!" said the Eaglet.
"I don't know the meaning of half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do either!"
And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other birds tittered audibly.
"What I was going to say," said the Dodo in an offended tone, "was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race."
At last the Dodo said, "Everybody has won, and all must have prizes."
"But who is to give the prizes?" quite a chorus of voices asked.
There was exactly one a-piece, all round.
"But she must have a prize herself, you know," said the Mouse.
"Of course," the Dodo replied very gravely.
"What else have you got in your pocket?" he went on, turning to Alice.
"Only a thimble," said Alice sadly.
"Hand it over here," said the Dodo.
However, it was over at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.
"Mine is a long and a sad tale!" said the Mouse, turning to Alice, and sighing.
"It is a long tail, certainly," said Alice, looking down with wonder at the Mouse's tail; "but why do you call it sad?"
Said the mouse to the cur, 'Such a trial, dear sir, With no jury or judge, would be wasting our breath.'
"You are not attending!" said the Mouse to Alice severely.
"What are you thinking of?"
"I beg your pardon," said Alice very humbly: "you had got to the fifth bend, I think?"
"I had not!" cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.
"A knot!" said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and looking anxiously about her.
"Oh, do let me help to undo it!"
"I shall do nothing of the sort," said the Mouse, getting up and walking away.
"You insult me by talking such nonsense!"
"I didn't mean it!" pleaded poor Alice.
"But you're so easily offended, you know!"
The Mouse only growled in reply.
"Please come back and finish your story!"
Alice called after it; and the others all joined in chorus, "Yes, please do!" but the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker.
"Hold your tongue, Ma!" said the young Crab, a little snappishly.
"You're enough to try the patience of an oyster!"
"I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!" said Alice aloud, addressing nobody in particular.
"She'd soon fetch it back!"
"And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?" said the Lory.
And she's such a capital one for catching mice you can't think!
And oh, I wish you could see her after the birds!
This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
On various pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.
"I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!" she said to herself in a melancholy tone.
And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
She'll get me executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!
Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan!
And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake it had made.
"He took me for his housemaid," she said to herself as she ran.
Come here directly, and get ready for your walk!'
'Coming in a minute, nurse!
But I've got to see that the mouse doesn't get out.'
There was no label this time with the words "DRINK ME," but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.
Alas! it was too late to wish that!
I almost wish I hadn't gone down that rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know, this sort of life!
I do wonder what can have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!
There ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!
That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman--but then--always to have lessons to learn!
"Oh, you foolish Alice!" she answered herself.
"Fetch me my gloves this moment!"
Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs.
Alice heard it say to itself "Then I'll go round and get in at the window."
"Digging for apples, indeed!" said the Rabbit angrily.
"Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?"
Who ever saw one that size?
"Sure, it does, yer honour: but it's an arm for all that."
"Well, it's got no business there, at any rate: go and take it away!"
"Do as I tell you, you coward!" and at last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in the air.
This time there were two little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass.
"What a number of cucumber-frames there must be!" thought Alice.
As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they could!
Heads below!" (a loud crash)--"Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't!
"So you did, old fellow!" said the others.
"We must burn the house down!" said the Rabbit's voice; and Alice called out as loud as she could, "If you do, I'll set Dinah at you!"
After a minute or two, they began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, "A barrowful will do, to begin with."
"I'll put a stop to this," she said to herself, and shouted out, "You'd better not do that again!" which produced another dead silence.
Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into her head.
So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that she began shrinking directly.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.
I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again!
Let me see--how is it to be managed?
The great question certainly was, what?
"Who are you?" said the Caterpillar.
This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.
"What do you mean by that?" said the Caterpillar sternly.
"I can't explain myself, I'm afraid, sir," said Alice, "because I'm not myself, you see."
"I don't see," said the Caterpillar.
"It isn't," said the Caterpillar.
"Not a bit," said the Caterpillar.
"Well, perhaps your feelings may be different," said Alice; "all I know is, it would feel very queer to me."
"You!" said the Caterpillar contemptuously.
Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation.
"Come back!" the Caterpillar called after her.
"I've something important to say!"
This sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and came back again.
"Keep your temper," said the Caterpillar.
"Is that all?" said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as she could.
Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing.
"I'm afraid I am, sir," said Alice; "I can't remember things as I used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!"
"Can't remember what things?" said the Caterpillar.
"Well, I've tried to say "How doth the little busy bee," but it all came different!"
Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.
"Repeat, 'You are old, Father William,'" said the Caterpillar.
Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
"That is not said right," said the Caterpillar.
"Not quite right, I'm afraid," said Alice, timidly; "some of the words have got altered."
"It is wrong from beginning to end," said the Caterpillar decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.
The Caterpillar was the first to speak.
"What size do you want to be?" it asked.
"Oh, I'm not particular as to size," Alice hastily replied; "only one doesn't like changing so often, you know."
"I don't know," said the Caterpillar.
Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.
"Are you content now?" said the Caterpillar.
"Well, I should like to be a little larger, sir, if you wouldn't mind," said Alice: "three inches is such a wretched height to be."
"It is a very good height indeed!" said the Caterpillar angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high).
"But I'm not used to it!" pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone.
And she thought of herself, "I wish the creatures wouldn't be so easily offended!"
"You'll get used to it in time," said the Caterpillar; and it put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.
This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.
"Of the mushroom," said the Caterpillar, just as if she had asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.
However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.
"What can all that green stuff be?" said Alice.
She was moving them about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the distant green leaves.
"I'm not a serpent!" said Alice indignantly.
"I haven't the least idea what you're talking about," said Alice.
Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.
"I'm very sorry you've been annoyed," said Alice, who was beginning to see its meaning.
"But I'm not a serpent, I tell you!" said Alice.
"I can see you're trying to invent something!"
"I--I'm a little girl," said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.
"A likely story indeed!" said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest contempt.
You're a serpent; and there's no use denying it.
"I have tasted eggs, certainly," said Alice, who was a very truthful child; "but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you know."
"I don't believe it," said the Pigeon; "but if they do, why then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say."
"Well, be off, then!" said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it settled down again into its nest.
How puzzling all these changes are!
I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to another!
As she said this, she came suddenly upon an open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.
"Whoever lives there," thought Alice, "it'll never do to come upon them this size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits!"
So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself down to nine inches high.
She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and crept a little way out of the wood to listen.
Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together.
Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.
"Please, then," said Alice, "how am I to get in?"
He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.
"--or next day, maybe," the Footman continued in the same tone, exactly as if nothing had happened.
"How am I to get in?" asked Alice again, in a louder tone.
"Are you to get in at all?" said the Footman.
"That's the first question, you know."
It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so.
The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his remark, with variations.
"I shall sit here," he said, "on and off, for days and days."
"But what am I to do?" said Alice.
"Anything you like," said the Footman, and began whistling.
"Oh, there's no use in talking to him," said Alice desperately: "he's perfectly idiotic!"
And she opened the door and went in.
"There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!"
Alice said to herself, as well as she could for sneezing.
There was certainly too much of it in the air.
Even the Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.
"I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn't know that cats could grin."
"They all can," said the Duchess; "and most of 'em do."
"I don't know of any that do," Alice said very politely, feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.
"You don't know much," said the Duchess; "and that's a fact."
Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it would be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation.
"Oh, please mind what you're doing!" cried Alice, jumping up and down in an agony of terror.
"Oh, there goes his precious nose!" as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very nearly carried it off.
"If everybody minded their own business," the Duchess said in a hoarse growl, "the world would go round a deal faster than it does."
"Which would not be an advantage," said Alice, who felt very glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge.
"Talking of axes," said the Duchess, "chop off her head!"
"Oh, don't bother me," said the Duchess; "I never could abide figures!"
"Speak roughly to your little boy, And beat him when he sneezes: He only does it to annoy, Because he knows it teases."
"I speak severely to my boy, I beat him when he sneezes; For he can thoroughly enjoy The pepper when he pleases!"
"Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!" the Duchess said to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.
"I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen," and she hurried out of the room.
The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out, but it just missed her.
She said the last words out loud, and the little thing grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).
"Don't grunt," said Alice; "that's not at all a proper way of expressing yourself."
The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to see what was the matter with it.
"But perhaps it was only sobbing," she thought, and looked into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.
The poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for some while in silence.
So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to see it trot away quietly into the wood.
"If it had grown up," she said to herself, "it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think."
The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice.
It looked good-natured, she thought: still it had very long claws and a great many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.
"Cheshire Puss," she began, rather timidly, as she did not at all know whether it would like the name: however, it only grinned a little wider.
"Come, it's pleased so far," thought Alice, and she went on.
"Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?"
"That depends a good deal on where you want to get to," said the Cat.
"I don't much care where--" said Alice.
"Then it doesn't matter which way you go," said the Cat.
"--so long as I get somewhere," Alice added as an explanation.
"Oh, you're sure to do that," said the Cat, "if you only walk long enough."
Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another question.
"What sort of people live about here?"
"But I don't want to go among mad people," Alice remarked.
"How do you know I'm mad?" said Alice.
"You must be," said the Cat, "or you wouldn't have come here."
Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on "And how do you know that you're mad?"
"I suppose so," said Alice.
Now I growl when I'm pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.
"I call it purring, not growling," said Alice.
"Call it what you like," said the Cat.
"Do you play croquet with the Queen to-day?"
"I should like it very much," said Alice, "but I haven't been invited yet."
"You'll see me there," said the Cat, and vanished.
Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer things happening.
While she was looking at the place where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.
"By-the-bye, what became of the baby?" said the Cat.
"I'd nearly forgotten to ask."
"It turned into a pig," Alice quietly said, just as if it had come back in a natural way.
"I thought it would," said the Cat, and vanished again.
As she said this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a branch of a tree.
"Did you say pig, or fig?" said the Cat.
"I said pig," replied Alice; "and I wish you wouldn't keep appearing and vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite giddy."
I've often seen a cat without a grin," thought Alice; "but a grin without a cat!
"Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse," thought Alice; "only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind."
"There's plenty of room!" said Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one end of the table.
"Have some wine," the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.
Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but tea.
"I don't see any wine," she remarked.
"There isn't any," said the March Hare.
"Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it," said Alice angrily.
"It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being invited," said the March Hare.
"I didn't know it was your table," said Alice; "it's laid for a great many more than three."
"Your hair wants cutting," said the Hatter.
He had been looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was his first speech.
"You should learn not to make personal remarks," Alice said with some severity; "it's very rude."
The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all he said was, "Why is a raven like a writing-desk?"
"Come, we shall have some fun now!" thought Alice.
"I'm glad they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that," she added aloud.
"Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?" said the March Hare.
"Then you should say what you mean," the March Hare went on.
"I do," Alice hastily replied; "at least--at least I mean what I say--that's the same thing, you know."
"Not the same thing a bit!" said the Hatter.
"You might just as well say that 'I see what I eat' is the same thing as 'I eat what I see'!"
"You might just as well say," added the March Hare, "that 'I like what I get' is the same thing as 'I get what I like'!"
The Hatter was the first to break the silence.
Alice considered a little, and then said "The fourth."
"Two days wrong!" sighed the Hatter.
"I told you butter wouldn't suit the works!" he added looking angrily at the March Hare.
"It was the best butter," the March Hare meekly replied.
"Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well," the Hatter grumbled: "you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife."
Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.
"What a funny watch!" she remarked.
"It tells the day of the month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!"
"Why should it?" muttered the Hatter.
"Does your watch tell you what year it is?"
"Of course not," Alice replied very readily: "but that's because it stays the same year for such a long time together."
"Which is just the case with mine," said the Hatter.
Alice felt dreadfully puzzled, The Hatter's remark seemed to have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.
"I don't quite understand you," she said, as politely as she could.
"The Dormouse is asleep again," said the Hatter, and he poured a little hot tea upon its nose.
The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without opening its eyes, "Of course, of course; just what I was going to remark myself."
"Have you guessed the riddle yet?" the Hatter said, turning to Alice again.
"No, I give it up," Alice replied: "what's the answer?"
"I haven't the slightest idea," said the Hatter.
"Nor I," said the March Hare.
"I think you might do something better with the time," she said, "than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers."
"I don't know what you mean," said Alice.
"Of course you don't!" the Hatter said, tossing his head contemptuously.
"I dare say you never even spoke to Time!"
"Perhaps not," Alice cautiously replied: "but I know I have to beat time when I learn music."
"Ah! that accounts for it," said the Hatter.
Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do almost anything you liked with the clock.
"That would be grand, certainly," said Alice thoughtfully: "but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know."
"Not at first, perhaps," said the Hatter: "but you could keep it to half-past one as long as you liked."
"Is that the way you manage?"
The Hatter shook his head mournfully.
How I wonder what you're at!'
"I've heard something like it," said Alice.
'Up above the world you fly, Like a tea-tray in the sky.
"How dreadfully savage!" exclaimed Alice.
A bright idea came into Alice's head.
"Is that the reason so many tea-things are put out here?" she asked.
"Yes, that's it," said the Hatter with a sigh: "it's always tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles."
"Then you keep moving round, I suppose?" said Alice.
"Exactly so," said the Hatter: "as the things get used up."
"But what happens when you come to the beginning again?"
"Suppose we change the subject," the March Hare interrupted, yawning.
"I'm afraid I don't know one," said Alice, rather alarmed at the proposal.
"Then the Dormouse shall!" they both cried.
And they pinched it on both sides at once.
The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.
"I wasn't asleep," he said in a hoarse, feeble voice: "I heard every word you fellows were saying."
"Tell us a story!" said the March Hare.
"Yes, please do!" pleaded Alice.
"And be quick about it," added the Hatter, "or you'll be asleep again before it's done."
"What did they live on?" said Alice, who always took a great interest in questions of eating and drinking.
"They lived on treacle," said the Dormouse, after thinking a minute or two.
"They couldn't have done that, you know," Alice gently remarked; "they'd have been ill."
"So they were," said the Dormouse; "very ill."
"Take some more tea," the March Hare said to Alice, very earnestly.
"I've had nothing yet," Alice replied in an offended tone, "so I can't take more."
"You mean you can't take less," said the Hatter: "it's very easy to take more than nothing."
"Nobody asked your opinion," said Alice.
"Who's making personal remarks now?" the Hatter asked triumphantly.
"Why did they live at the bottom of a well?"
The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then said, "It was a treacle-well."
"One, indeed!" said the Dormouse indignantly.
However, he consented to go on.
"What did they draw?" said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.
"Treacle," said the Dormouse, without considering at all this time.
"I want a clean cup," interrupted the Hatter: "let's all move one place on."
"You can draw water out of a water-well," said the Hatter; "so I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh, stupid?"
"But they were in the well," Alice said to the Dormouse, not choosing to notice this last remark.
"Of course they were," said the Dormouse; "--well in."
This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse go on for some time without interrupting it.
"Why with an M?" said Alice.
"Why not?" said the March Hare.
"Then you shouldn't talk," said the Hatter.
"At any rate I'll never go there again!" said Alice as she picked her way through the wood.
"It's the stupidest tea-party I ever was at in all my life!"
Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a door leading right into it.
"That's very curious!" she thought.
Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the little glass table.
"Now, I'll manage better this time," she said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking the door that led into the garden.
A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden: the roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily painting them red.
"I couldn't help it," said Five, in a sulky tone; "Seven jogged my elbow."
"You'd better not talk!" said Five.
"I heard the Queen say only yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!"
"What for?" said the one who had spoken first.
"That's none of your business, Two!" said Seven.
"Yes, it is his business!" said Five, "and I'll tell him--it was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions."
"Would you tell me," said Alice, a little timidly, "why you are painting those roses?"
Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two.
So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore she comes, to--" At this moment Five, who had been anxiously looking across the garden, called out "The Queen!
There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice looked round, eager to see the Queen.
So she stood still where she was, and waited.
When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and looked at her, and the Queen said severely "Who is this?"
She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.
"Idiot!" said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and, turning to Alice, she went on, "What's your name, child?"
"How should I know?" said Alice, surprised at her own courage.
"It's no business of mine."
"Nonsense!" said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was silent.
The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said "Consider, my dear: she is only a child!"
The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave "Turn them over!"
The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.
"Leave off that!" screamed the Queen.
And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, "What have you been doing here?"
"I see!" said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the roses.
"Off with their heads!" and the procession moved on, three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.
"You shan't be beheaded!" said Alice, and she put them into a large flower-pot that stood near.
The three soldiers wandered about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the others.
"Are their heads off?" shouted the Queen.
"Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!" the soldiers shouted in reply.
"That's right!" shouted the Queen.
The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question was evidently meant for her.
"Come on, then!" roared the Queen, and Alice joined the procession, wondering very much what would happen next.
"It's--it's a very fine day!" said a timid voice at her side.
She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into her face.
"Very," said Alice: "--where's the Duchess?"
"Did you say 'What a pity!'?" the Rabbit asked.
"She boxed the Queen's ears--" the Rabbit began.
Alice gave a little scream of laughter.
"Oh, hush!" the Rabbit whispered in a frightened tone.
"How are you getting on?" said the Cat, as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with.
Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.
"It's no use speaking to it," she thought, "till its ears have come, or at least one of them."
The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and no more of it appeared.
"How do you like the Queen?" said the Cat in a low voice.
The Queen smiled and passed on.
"Who are you talking to?" said the King, going up to Alice, and looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.
"It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat," said Alice: "allow me to introduce it."
"I don't like the look of it at all," said the King: "however, it may kiss my hand if it likes."
"I'd rather not," the Cat remarked.
"Don't be impertinent," said the King, "and don't look at me like that!"
He got behind Alice as he spoke.
"A cat may look at a king," said Alice.
"I've read that in some book, but I don't remember where."
The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great or small.
"Off with his head!" she said, without even looking round.
"I'll fetch the executioner myself," said the King eagerly, and he hurried off.
Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance, screaming with passion.
So she went in search of her hedgehog.
So she tucked it away under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with her friend.
The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.
Alice could think of nothing else to say but "It belongs to the Duchess: you'd better ask her about it."
"She's in prison," the Queen said to the executioner: "fetch her here."
And the executioner went off like an arrow.
She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
"Perhaps it hasn't one," Alice ventured to remark.
"Tut, tut, child!" said the Duchess.
"Everything's got a moral, if only you can find it."
And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice's side as she spoke.
However, she did not like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.
"The game's going on rather better now," she said, by way of keeping up the conversation a little.
"Somebody said," Alice whispered, "that it's done by everybody minding their own business!"
"How fond she is of finding morals in things!"
"He might bite," Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious to have the experiment tried.
"Only mustard isn't a bird," Alice remarked.
"Right, as usual," said the Duchess: "what a clear way you have of putting things!"
"It's a mineral, I think," said Alice.
"I think I should understand that better," Alice said very politely, "if I had it written down: but I can't quite follow it as you say it."
"That's nothing to what I could say if I chose," the Duchess replied, in a pleased tone.
"Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that," said Alice.
"Oh, don't talk about trouble!" said the Duchess.
"I make you a present of everything I've said as yet."
"A cheap sort of present!" thought Alice.
"I'm glad they don't give birthday presents like that!"
But she did not venture to say it out loud.
"Thinking again?" the Duchess asked, with another dig of her sharp little chin.
"I've a right to think," said Alice sharply, for she was beginning to feel a little worried.
Alice looked up, and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded, frowning like a thunderstorm.
"A fine day, your Majesty!" the Duchess began in a low, weak voice.
The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.
All the time they were playing the Queen never left off quarrelling with the other players, and shouting "Off with his head!" or "Off with her head!"
Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to Alice, "Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?"
"I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is."
"It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from," said the Queen.
"I never saw one, or heard of one," said Alice.
"Come on, then," said the Queen, "and he shall tell you his history."
As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low voice, to the company generally, "You are all pardoned."
"Come, that's a good thing!" she said to herself, for she had felt quite unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.
The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes: then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight: then it chuckled.
"What fun!" said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.
"What is the fun?" said Alice.
"Why, she," said the Gryphon.
"Everybody says 'come on!' here," thought Alice, as she went slowly after it: "I never was so ordered about in all my life, never!"
So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.
"This here young lady," said the Gryphon, "she wants for to know your history, she do."
"I'll tell it her," said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow tone: "sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've finished."
So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.
Alice thought to herself, "I don't see how he can ever finish, if he doesn't begin."
"Once," said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, "I was a real Turtle."
"Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?"
"We called him Tortoise because he taught us," said the Mock Turtle angrily: "really you are very dull!"
"I never said I didn't!" interrupted Alice.
"You did," said the Mock Turtle.
"Hold your tongue!" added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak again.
"I've been to a day-school, too," said Alice; "you needn't be so proud as all that."
"With extras?" asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.
"Yes," said Alice, "we learned French and music."
"And washing?" said the Mock Turtle.
"Certainly not!" said Alice indignantly.
"Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school," said the Mock Turtle in a tone of great relief.
"You couldn't have wanted it much," said Alice; "living at the bottom of the sea."
"I couldn't afford to learn it." said the Mock Turtle with a sigh.
"I only took the regular course."
"What was that?" inquired Alice.
"I never heard of 'Uglification,'" Alice ventured to say.
The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.
"You know what to beautify is, I suppose?"
"Yes," said Alice doubtfully: "it means--to--make--anything--prettier."
"Well, then," the Gryphon went on, "if you don't know what to uglify is, you are a simpleton."
Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said "What else had you to learn?"
"What was that like?" said Alice.
"I never went to him," the Mock Turtle said with a sigh: "he taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say."
"So he did, so he did," said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn; and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.
"And how many hours a day did you do lessons?" said Alice, in a hurry to change the subject.
"Ten hours the first day," said the Mock Turtle: "nine the next, and so on."
"What a curious plan!" exclaimed Alice.
"That's the reason they're called lessons," the Gryphon remarked: "because they lessen from day to day."
This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a little before she made her next remark.
"Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday?"
"Of course it was," said the Mock Turtle.
"And how did you manage on the twelfth?"
"That's enough about lessons," the Gryphon interrupted in a very decided tone: "tell her something about the games now."
The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper across his eyes.
He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice.
"Same as if he had a bone in his throat," said the Gryphon: and it set to work shaking him and punching him in the back.
"What sort of a dance is it?"
"Two lines!" cried the Mock Turtle.
"That generally takes some time," interrupted the Gryphon.
"Each with a lobster as a partner!" cried the Gryphon.
"--change lobsters, and retire in same order," continued the Gryphon.
"The lobsters!" shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.
"Swim after them!" screamed the Gryphon.
"Turn a somersault in the sea!" cried the Mock Turtle, capering wildly about.
"Change lobsters again!" yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice.
"It must be a very pretty dance," said Alice timidly.
"Would you like to see a little of it?" said the Mock Turtle.
"Very much indeed," said Alice.
"Come, let's try the first figure!" said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon.
"Oh, you sing," said the Gryphon.
"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the dance?
"You can really have no notion how delightful it will be When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to sea!"
But the snail replied "Too far, too far!" and gave a look askance-- Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance.
"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly friend replied.
The further off from England the nearer is to France-- Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.
"Oh, as to the whiting," said the Mock Turtle, "they--you've seen them, of course?"
"Yes," said Alice, "I've often seen them at dinn--" she checked herself hastily.
"I don't know where Dinn may be," said the Mock Turtle, "but if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're like."
"I believe so," Alice replied thoughtfully.
"They have their tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs."
So they got thrown out to sea.
So they had to fall a long way.
So they got their tails fast in their mouths.
So they couldn't get them out again.
"I can tell you more than that, if you like," said the Gryphon.
"Do you know why it's called a whiting?"
"I never thought about it," said Alice.
"It does the boots and shoes," the Gryphon replied very solemnly.
"Does the boots and shoes!" she repeated in a wondering tone.
"Why, what are your shoes done with?" said the Gryphon.
"I mean, what makes them so shiny?"
Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she gave her answer.
"They're done with blacking, I believe."
"And what are they made of?"
Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity.
"Soles and eels, of course," the Gryphon replied rather impatiently: "any shrimp could have told you that."
"They were obliged to have him with them," the Mock Turtle said: "no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise."
"Wouldn't it really?" said Alice in a tone of great surprise.
"Don't you mean 'purpose'?" said Alice.
"I mean what I say," the Mock Turtle replied in an offended tone.
And the Gryphon added "Come, let's hear some of your adventures."
"Explain all that," said the Mock Turtle.
So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first saw the White Rabbit.
"It's all about as curious as it can be," said the Gryphon.
"It all came different!" the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully.
He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.
"Stand up and repeat ''Tis the voice of the sluggard,'" said the Gryphon.
"How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat lessons!" thought Alice; "I might as well be at school at once."
"That's different from what I used to say when I was a child," said the Gryphon.
"Well, I never heard it before," said the Mock Turtle; "but it sounds uncommon nonsense."
Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her hands, wondering if anything would ever happen in a natural way again.
"I should like to have it explained," said the Mock Turtle.
"She can't explain it," said the Gryphon hastily.
"Go on with the next verse."
"But about his toes?" the Mock Turtle persisted.
"How could he turn them out with his nose, you know?"
"It's the first position in dancing."
Alice said; but was dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the subject.
"Yes, I think you'd better leave off," said the Gryphon: and Alice was only too glad to do so.
"Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?" the Gryphon went on.
"Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?"
Who for such dainties would not stoop?
Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
Soo--oop of the e--e--evening, Beautiful, beautiful Soup!
Who cares for fish, Game, or any other dish?
Who would not give all else for two p ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
"Chorus again!" cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had just begun to repeat it, when a cry of "The trial's beginning!" was heard in the distance.
"Come on!" cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand, it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.
"Soo--oop of the e--e--evening, Beautiful, beautiful Soup!"
But there seemed to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about her, to pass away the time.
"That's the judge," she said to herself, "because of his great wig."
However, "jury-men" would have done just as well.
The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates.
Alice whispered to the Gryphon.
"They can't have anything to put down yet, before the trial's begun."
"They're putting down their names," the Gryphon whispered in reply, "for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial."
"A nice muddle their slates'll be in before the trial's over!" thought Alice.
One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked.
This of course, Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it away.
"Herald, read the accusation!" said the King.
"The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts, All on a summer day: The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts, And took them quite away!"
"Consider your verdict," the King said to the jury.
"Not yet, not yet!" the Rabbit hastily interrupted.
"There's a great deal to come before that!"
"Call the first witness," said the King; and the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, "First witness!"
The first witness was the Hatter.
He came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.
"I beg pardon, your Majesty," he began, "for bringing these in: but I hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for."
"You ought to have finished," said the King.
The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse.
"Fourteenth of March, I think it was," he said.
"Fifteenth," said the March Hare.
"Take off your hat," the King said to the Hatter.
"It isn't mine," said the Hatter.
"Stolen!" the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who instantly made a memorandum of the fact.
Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.
"Give your evidence," said the King; "and don't be nervous, or I'll have you executed on the spot."
"I wish you wouldn't squeeze so," said the Dormouse, who was sitting next to her.
"I can't help it," said Alice very meekly: "I'm growing."
"You've no right to grow here," said the Dormouse.
"Don't talk nonsense," said Alice more boldly: "you know you're growing too."
"Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace," said the Dormouse: "not in that ridiculous fashion."
And he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the other side of the court.
"Give your evidence," the King repeated angrily, "or I'll have you executed, whether you're nervous or not."
"The twinkling of the what?" said the King.
"It began with the tea," the Hatter replied.
"Of course twinkling begins with a T!" said the King sharply.
"I didn't!" the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.
"You did!" said the Hatter.
"I deny it!" said the March Hare.
"He denies it," said the King: "leave out that part."
"But what did the Dormouse say?" one of the jury asked.
"That I can't remember," said the Hatter.
"You must remember," remarked the King, "or I'll have you executed."
The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, and went down on one knee.
"I'm a poor man, your Majesty," he began.
"You're a very poor speaker," said the King.
"I'm glad I've seen that done," thought Alice.
"If that's all you know about it, you may stand down," continued the King.
"I can't go no lower," said the Hatter: "I'm on the floor, as it is."
"Then you may sit down," the King replied.
Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.
"Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!" thought Alice.
"Now we shall get on better."
"I'd rather finish my tea," said the Hatter, with an anxious look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.
"You may go," said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.
"Call the next witness!" said the King.
The next witness was the Duchess's cook.
"Give your evidence," said the King.
The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a low voice, "Your Majesty must cross-examine this witness."
"Pepper, mostly," said the cook.
"Treacle," said a sleepy voice behind her.
"Collar that Dormouse," the Queen shrieked out.
Turn that Dormouse out of court!
For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down again, the cook had disappeared.
"Never mind!" said the King, with an air of great relief.
Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top of his shrill little voice, the name "Alice!"
"What do you know about this business?" the King said to Alice.
"Nothing whatever?" persisted the King.
"That's very important," the King said, turning to the jury.
"important--unimportant--unimportant--important--" as if he were trying which word sounded best.
Some of the jury wrote it down "important," and some "unimportant."
Alice could see this, as she was near enough to look over their slates; "but it doesn't matter a bit," she thought to herself.
"I'm not a mile high," said Alice.
"You are," said the King.
"Nearly two miles high," added the Queen.
"Well, I shan't go, at any rate," said Alice: "besides, that's not a regular rule: you invented it just now."
"It's the oldest rule in the book," said the King.
"Then it ought to be Number One," said Alice.
The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily.
"Consider your verdict," he said to the jury, in a low, trembling voice.
"There's more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty," said the White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; "this paper has just been picked up."
"What's in it?" said the Queen.
"I haven't opened it yet," said the White Rabbit, "but it seems to be a letter, written by the prisoner to--to somebody."
"It must have been that," said the King, "unless it was written to nobody, which isn't usual, you know."
"Who is it directed to?" said one of the jurymen.
"It isn't directed at all," said the White Rabbit; "in fact, there's nothing written on the outside."
He unfolded the paper as he spoke, and added "It isn't a letter, after all: it's a set of verses."
"Are they in the prisoner's handwriting?" asked another of the jurymen.
"Please your Majesty," said the Knave, "I didn't write it, and they can't prove I did: there's no name signed at the end."
There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really clever thing the King had said that day.
"That proves his guilt," said the Queen.
"It proves nothing of the sort!" said Alice.
"Why, you don't even know what they're about!"
"Read them," said the King.
The White Rabbit put on his spectacles.
"Where shall I begin, please your Majesty?" he asked.
"Begin at the beginning," the King said gravely, "and go on till you come to the end: then stop."
He sent them word I had not gone (We know it to be true): If she should push the matter on, What would become of you?
I gave her one, they gave him two, You gave us three or more; They all returned from him to you, Though they were mine before.
If I or she should chance to be Involved in this affair, He trusts to you to set them free, Exactly as we were.
My notion was that you had been (Before she had this fit) An obstacle that came between Him, and ourselves, and it.
The jury all wrote down on their slates, "She doesn't believe there's an atom of meaning in it," but none of them attempted to explain the paper.
The Knave shook his head sadly.
"But, it goes on 'they all returned from him to you,'" said Alice.
"Why, there they are!" said the King triumphantly, pointing to the tarts on the table.
"Then the words don't fit you," said the King, looking round the court with a smile.
There was a dead silence.
"No, no!" said the Queen.
"Stuff and nonsense!" said Alice loudly.
"The idea of having the sentence first!"
"Hold your tongue!" said the Queen, turning purple.
"Off with her head!" the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.
"Who cares for you?" said Alice, (she had grown to her full size by this time.) "You're nothing but a pack of cards!"
"Wake up, Alice dear!" said her sister; "Why, what a long sleep you've had!"
So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.
The text is based on translations from the Grimms' Kinder und Hausmärchen by Edgar Taylor and Marian Edwardes.
A certain king had a beautiful garden, and in the garden stood a tree which bore golden apples.
These apples were always counted, and about the time when they began to grow ripe it was found that every night one of them was gone.
The king became very angry at this, and ordered the gardener to keep watch all night under the tree.
The gardener set his eldest son to watch; but about twelve o'clock he fell asleep, and in the morning another of the apples was missing.
Then the second son was ordered to watch; and at midnight he too fell asleep, and in the morning another apple was gone.
But the arrow did the bird no harm; only it dropped a golden feather from its tail, and then flew away.
The golden feather was brought to the king in the morning, and all the council was called together.
But the son thought to himself, 'What can such a beast as this know about the matter?'
So he shot his arrow at the fox; but he missed it, and it set up its tail above its back and ran into the wood.
So he sat down, and the fox began to run, and away they went over stock and stone so quick that their hair whistled in the wind.
But the bird set up such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke, and they took him prisoner and carried him before the king.
I will still, however, tell you how to find the golden horse, if you will do as I bid you.
Then the son sat down on the fox's tail, and away they went over stock and stone till their hair whistled in the wind.
All went right, and the groom lay snoring with his hand upon the golden saddle.
But when the son looked at the horse, he thought it a great pity to put the leathern saddle upon it.
'I will give him the good one,' said he; 'I am sure he deserves it.'
But it was agreed, that, if he could bring thither the beautiful princess, he should live, and have the bird and the horse given him for his own.
Then he went his way very sorrowful; but the old fox came and said, 'Why did not you listen to me?
If you had, you would have carried away both the bird and the horse; yet will I once more give you counsel.
Go straight on, and in the evening you will arrive at a castle.
Then the fox stretched out his tail, and so away they went over stock and stone till their hair whistled again.
'Lie down and go to sleep; I will work for you.'
'Ah!' said the young man, 'that would be a great thing, but how can you contrive it?'
'If you will only listen,' said the fox, 'it can be done.
When you come to the king, and he asks for the beautiful princess, you must say, "Here she is!"
Then lift her quickly on to the horse behind you; clap your spurs to his side, and gallop away as fast as you can.'
This, too, happened as the fox said; they carried off the bird, the princess mounted again, and they rode on to a great wood.
Then the fox came, and said, 'Pray kill me, and cut off my head and my feet.'
'Well,' thought the young man, 'it is no hard matter to keep that advice.'
He rode on with the princess, till at last he came to the village where he had left his two brothers.
And there he heard a great noise and uproar; and when he asked what was the matter, the people said, 'Two men are going to be hanged.'
As he came nearer, he saw that the two men were his brothers, who had turned robbers; so he said, 'Cannot they in any way be saved?'
But the people said 'No,' unless he would bestow all his money upon the rascals and buy their liberty.
'All this have we won by our labour.'
Then there was great rejoicing made; but the horse would not eat, the bird would not sing, and the princess wept.
One of these lucky beings was neighbour Hans.
Seven long years he had worked hard for his master.
And the master said, 'You have been a faithful and good servant, Hans, so your pay shall be handsome.'
Then he gave him a lump of silver as big as his head.
Hans took out his pocket-handkerchief, put the piece of silver into it, threw it over his shoulder, and jogged off on his road homewards.
As he went lazily on, dragging one foot after another, a man came in sight, trotting gaily along on a capital horse.
'Ah!' said Hans aloud, 'what a fine thing it is to ride on horseback!
Hans did not speak so softly but the horseman heard it all, and said, 'Well, friend, why do you go on foot then?'
'What do you say of making an exchange?' said the horseman.
'No care and no sorrow, A fig for the morrow!
We'll laugh and be merry, Sing neigh down derry!'
After a time he thought he should like to go a little faster, so he smacked his lips and cried 'Jip!'
Away went the horse full gallop; and before Hans knew what he was about, he was thrown off, and lay on his back by the road-side.
His horse would have ran off, if a shepherd who was coming by, driving a cow, had not stopped it.
One can walk along at one's leisure behind that cow--keep good company, and have milk, butter, and cheese, every day, into the bargain.
What would I give to have such a prize!'
'What a noble heart that good man has!' thought he.
Then the shepherd jumped upon the horse, wished Hans and the cow good morning, and away he rode.
Hans brushed his coat, wiped his face and hands, rested a while, and then drove off his cow quietly, and thought his bargain a very lucky one.
When he came to an inn, he halted, ate up all his bread, and gave away his last penny for a glass of beer.
When he had rested himself he set off again, driving his cow towards his mother's village.
Who would have thought that this cow, which was to bring him milk and butter and cheese, was all that time utterly dry?
Hans had not thought of looking to that.
Luckily a butcher soon came by, driving a pig in a wheelbarrow.
'What is the matter with you, my man?' said the butcher, as he helped him up.
Hans told him what had happened, how he was dry, and wanted to milk his cow, but found the cow was dry too.
'Alas, alas!' said Hans, 'who would have thought it?
What a shame to take my horse, and give me only a dry cow!
If I kill her, what will she be good for?
I hate cow-beef; it is not tender enough for me.
If it were a pig now--like that fat gentleman you are driving along at his ease--one could do something with it; it would at any rate make sausages.'
'Well,' said the butcher, 'I don't like to say no, when one is asked to do a kind, neighbourly thing.
To please you I will change, and give you my fine fat pig for the cow.'
How could it be otherwise with such a travelling companion as he had at last got?
The next man he met was a countryman carrying a fine white goose.
The countryman then began to tell his tale, and said he was going to take the goose to a christening.
'Feel,' said he, 'how heavy it is, and yet it is only eight weeks old.
Whoever roasts and eats it will find plenty of fat upon it, it has lived so well!'
'You're right,' said Hans, as he weighed it in his hand; 'but if you talk of fat, my pig is no trifle.'
Meantime the countryman began to look grave, and shook his head.
'Hark ye!' said he, 'my worthy friend, you seem a good sort of fellow, so I can't help doing you a kind turn.
Your pig may get you into a scrape.
In the village I just came from, the squire has had a pig stolen out of his sty.
I was dreadfully afraid when I saw you that you had got the squire's pig.
If you have, and they catch you, it will be a bad job for you.
The least they will do will be to throw you into the horse-pond.
Poor Hans was sadly frightened.
'Good man,' cried he, 'pray get me out of this scrape.
'I ought to have something into the bargain,' said the countryman; 'give a fat goose for a pig, indeed!
'Tis not everyone would do so much for you as that.
However, I will not be hard upon you, as you are in trouble.'
Then he took the string in his hand, and drove off the pig by a side path; while Hans went on the way homewards free from care.
'After all,' thought he, 'that chap is pretty well taken in.
I don't care whose pig it is, but wherever it came from it has been a very good friend to me.
I have much the best of the bargain.
First there will be a capital roast; then the fat will find me in goose-grease for six months; and then there are all the beautiful white feathers.
I will put them into my pillow, and then I am sure I shall sleep soundly without rocking.
How happy my mother will be!
Give me a fine fat goose.'
'O'er hill and o'er dale So happy I roam, Work light and live well, All the world is my home; Then who so blythe, so merry as I?'
Hans stood looking on for a while, and at last said, 'You must be well off, master grinder! you seem so happy at your work.'
'I did not buy it, I gave a pig for it.'
'And where did you get the pig?'
'I gave a lump of silver as big as my head for it.'
I worked hard for that seven long years.'
'Very true: but how is that to be managed?'
Why, you must turn grinder like myself,' said the other; 'you only want a grindstone; the rest will come of itself.
Here is one that is but little the worse for wear: I would not ask more than the value of your goose for it--will you buy?'
People are so kind; they seem really to think I do them a favour in letting them make me rich, and giving me good bargains.'
Meantime he began to be tired, and hungry too, for he had given away his last penny in his joy at getting the cow.
'How happy am I!' cried he; 'nobody was ever so lucky as I.'
There was once an old castle, that stood in the middle of a deep gloomy wood, and in the castle lived an old fairy.
Now this fairy could take any shape she pleased.
There were seven hundred of these cages hanging in the castle, and all with beautiful birds in them.
Now there was once a maiden whose name was Jorinda.
Then he shrank for fear, turned pale, and trembled.
'The ring-dove sang from the willow spray, Well-a-day!
He mourn'd for the fate of his darling mate, Well-a-day!'
when her song stopped suddenly.
Jorindel turned to see the reason, and beheld his Jorinda changed into a nightingale, so that her song ended with a mournful jug, jug.
Jorindel could not move; he stood fixed as a stone, and could neither weep, nor speak, nor stir hand or foot.
She mumbled something to herself, seized the nightingale, and went away with it in her hand.
Poor Jorindel saw the nightingale was gone--but what could he do?
He could not speak, he could not move from the spot where he stood.
'Till the prisoner is fast, And her doom is cast, There stay!
When the charm is around her, And the spell has bound her, Hie away! away!'
On a sudden Jorindel found himself free.
He prayed, he wept, he sorrowed, but all in vain.
'Alas!' he said, 'what will become of me?'
He could not go back to his own home, so he went to a strange village, and employed himself in keeping sheep.
Then he plucked the flower, and set out and travelled day and night, till he came again to the castle.
Jorindel was very glad indeed to see this.
At last he came to the chamber where the fairy sat, with the seven hundred birds singing in the seven hundred cages.
He looked around at the birds, but alas! there were many, many nightingales, and how then should he find out which was his Jorinda?
After he had travelled a little way, he spied a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired.
'What makes you pant so, my friend?' said the ass.
The dog said he was willing, and they jogged on together.
They had not gone far before they saw a cat sitting in the middle of the road and making a most rueful face.
'Pray, my good lady,' said the ass, 'what's the matter with you?
You look quite out of spirits!'
'Ah, me!' said the cat, 'how can one be in good spirits when one's life is in danger?
'Oh,' said the ass, 'by all means go with us to the great city; you are a good night singer, and may make your fortune as a musician.'
The cat was pleased with the thought, and joined the party.
Soon afterwards, as they were passing by a farmyard, they saw a cock perched upon a gate, and screaming out with all his might and main.
'Bravo!' said the ass; 'upon my word, you make a famous noise; pray what is all this about?'
'Heaven forbid!' said the ass, 'come with us Master Chanticleer; it will be better, at any rate, than staying here to have your head cut off!
If we care to sing in tune, we may get up some kind of a concert; so come along with us.'
'With all my heart,' said the cock: so they all four went on jollily together.
They could not, however, reach the great city the first day; so when night came on, they went into a wood to sleep.
'If that be the case,' said the ass, 'we had better change our quarters, for our lodging is not the best in the world!'
'Besides,' added the dog, 'I should not be the worse for a bone or two, or a bit of meat.'
The ass, being the tallest of the company, marched up to the window and peeped in.
'Well, Donkey,' said Chanticleer, 'what do you see?'
'What do I see?' replied the ass.
'Why, I see a table spread with all kinds of good things, and robbers sitting round it making merry.'
'That would be a noble lodging for us,' said the cock.
When all was ready a signal was given, and they began their music.
As soon as they had satisfied themselves, they put out the lights, and each once more sought out a resting-place to his own liking.
But the cat, not understanding this joke, sprang at his face, and spat, and scratched at him.
A shepherd had a faithful dog, called Sultan, who was grown very old, and had lost all his teeth.
'Make yourself easy,' said the wolf, 'I will give you some good advice.
The dog liked this plan very well; and accordingly so it was managed.
Wife, go home, and give him a good dinner, and let him have my old cushion to sleep on as long as he lives.'
So from this time forward Sultan had all that he could wish for.
'No,' said the Sultan; 'I will be true to my master.'
However, the wolf thought he was in joke, and came one night to get a dainty morsel.
Then the wolf was very angry, and called Sultan 'an old rogue,' and swore he would have his revenge.
So the next morning the wolf sent the boar to challenge Sultan to come into the wood to fight the matter.
Sultan and the cat soon came up, and looked about and wondered that no one was there.
In a village dwelt a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them.
So she made a fire on her hearth, and that it might burn the quicker, she lighted it with a handful of straw.
Then the straw began and said: 'Dear friends, from whence do you come here?'
'And would a better fate have fallen to my lot?' said the straw.
'The old woman has destroyed all my brethren in fire and smoke; she seized sixty of them at once, and took their lives.
I luckily slipped through her fingers.'
'But what are we to do now?' said the coal.
The proposition pleased the two others, and they set out on their way together.
Soon, however, they came to a little brook, and as there was no bridge or foot-plank, they did not know how they were to get over it.
The straw hit on a good idea, and said: 'I will lay myself straight across, and then you can walk over on me as on a bridge.'
The straw therefore stretched itself from one bank to the other, and the coal, who was of an impetuous disposition, tripped quite boldly on to the newly-built bridge.
But when she had reached the middle, and heard the water rushing beneath her, she was after all, afraid, and stood still, and ventured no farther.
The straw, however, began to burn, broke in two pieces, and fell into the stream.
The coal slipped after her, hissed when she got into the water, and breathed her last.
The bean, who had prudently stayed behind on the shore, could not but laugh at the event, was unable to stop, and laughed so heartily that she burst.
As he had a compassionate heart he pulled out his needle and thread, and sewed her together.
The bean thanked him most prettily, but as the tailor used black thread, all beans since then have a black seam.
A king and queen once upon a time reigned in a country a great way off, where there were in those days fairies.
So he asked his kinsmen, and nobles, and friends, and neighbours.
But the queen said, 'I will have the fairies also, that they might be kind and good to our little daughter.'
One gave her goodness, another beauty, another riches, and so on till she had all that was good in the world.
So she cried out, 'The king's daughter shall, in her fifteenth year, be wounded by a spindle, and fall down dead.'
It happened that, on the very day she was fifteen years old, the king and queen were not at home, and she was left alone in the palace.
In the door there was a golden key, and when she turned it the door sprang open, and there sat an old lady spinning away very busily.
'Why, how now, good mother,' said the princess; 'what are you doing there?'
'Spinning,' said the old lady, and nodded her head, humming a tune, while buzz! went the wheel.
'How prettily that little thing turns round!' said the princess, and took the spindle and began to try and spin.
But scarcely had she touched it, before the fairy's prophecy was fulfilled; the spindle wounded her, and she fell down lifeless on the ground.
Then the young prince said, 'All this shall not frighten me; I will go and see this Briar Rose.'
The old man tried to hinder him, but he was bent upon going.
She looked so beautiful that he could not take his eyes off her, so he stooped down and gave her a kiss.
And then the prince and Briar Rose were married, and the wedding feast was given; and they lived happily together all their lives long.
A shepherd's dog had a master who took no care of him, but often let him suffer the greatest hunger.
At last he could bear it no longer; so he took to his heels, and off he ran in a very sad and sorrowful mood.
On the road he met a sparrow that said to him, 'Why are you so sad, my friend?'
'Because,' said the dog, 'I am very very hungry, and have nothing to eat.'
'If that be all,' answered the sparrow, 'come with me into the next town, and I will soon find you plenty of food.'
Then the dog snapped it up, and scrambled away with it into a corner, where he soon ate it all up.
'Well,' said the sparrow, 'you shall have some more if you will; so come with me to the next shop, and I will peck you down another steak.'
When the dog had eaten this too, the sparrow said to him, 'Well, my good friend, have you had enough now?'
'I have had plenty of meat,' answered he, 'but I should like to have a piece of bread to eat after it.'
'Come with me then,' said the sparrow, 'and you shall soon have that too.'
When that was eaten, the sparrow asked him whether he had had enough now.
'Yes,' said he; 'and now let us take a walk a little way out of the town.'
'Very well,' answered the sparrow, 'do so, and in the meantime I will perch upon that bush.'
So the dog stretched himself out on the road, and fell fast asleep.
Whilst he slept, there came by a carter with a cart drawn by three horses, and loaded with two casks of wine.
Mr Carter, or it shall be the worse for you.'
'There,' cried the sparrow, 'thou cruel villain, thou hast killed my friend the dog.
This deed of thine shall cost thee all thou art worth.'
'Do your worst, and welcome,' said the brute, 'what harm can you do me?' and passed on.
At last he looked round, and saw that the cart was dripping, and the cask quite empty.
'What an unlucky wretch I am!' cried he.
'Not wretch enough yet!' said the sparrow, as she alighted upon the head of one of the horses, and pecked at him till he reared up and kicked.
'Unlucky wretch that I am!' cried he.
'Not wretch enough yet!' said the sparrow.
When the carter saw this, he again cried out, 'Miserable wretch that I am!'
But the sparrow answered, 'Not wretch enough yet!' and perched on the head of the second horse, and pecked at him too.
'Unlucky wretch that I am!' said he.
'Not wretch enough yet!' said the sparrow; and perching upon the third horse, she began to peck him too.
'Alas! miserable wretch that I am!' cried he.
'Not wretch enough yet!' answered the sparrow as she flew away; 'now will I plague and punish thee at thy own house.'
The carter was forced at last to leave his cart behind him, and to go home overflowing with rage and vexation.
'Alas!' said he to his wife, 'what ill luck has befallen me!--my wine is all spilt, and my horses all three dead.'
Away ran the husband upstairs, and saw thousands of birds sitting upon the floor eating up his corn, with the sparrow in the midst of them.
'Unlucky wretch that I am!' cried the carter; for he saw that the corn was almost all gone.
'Not wretch enough yet!' said the sparrow; 'thy cruelty shall cost thee thy life yet!' and away she flew.
But the sparrow sat on the outside of the window, and cried 'Carter! thy cruelty shall cost thee thy life!'
With that he jumped up in a rage, seized his hatchet, and threw it at the sparrow; but it missed her, and only broke the window.
The sparrow now hopped in, perched upon the window-seat, and cried, 'Carter! it shall cost thee thy life!'
In the end, however, they caught her: and the wife said, 'Shall I kill her at once?'
'No,' cried he, 'that is letting her off too easily: she shall die a much more cruel death; I will eat her.'
But the sparrow began to flutter about, and stretch out her neck and cried, 'Carter! it shall cost thee thy life yet!'
With that he could wait no longer: so he gave his wife the hatchet, and cried, 'Wife, strike at the bird and kill her in my hand.'
There was a king who had twelve beautiful daughters.
He was well entertained, and in the evening was taken to the chamber next to the one where the princesses lay in their twelve beds.
The same thing happened the second and third night: so the king ordered his head to be cut off.
After him came several others; but they had all the same luck, and all lost their lives in the same manner.
Then he laid himself down on his bed, and in a little while began to snore very loud as if he was fast asleep.
But the youngest said, 'I don't know how it is, while you are so happy I feel very uneasy; I am sure some mischance will befall us.'
'You simpleton,' said the eldest, 'you are always afraid; have you forgotten how many kings' sons have already watched in vain?
And as for this soldier, even if I had not given him his sleeping draught, he would have slept soundly enough.'
'You silly creature!' said the eldest, 'it is nothing but a nail in the wall.'
The soldier wished to take away some token of the place; so he broke off a little branch, and there came a loud noise from the tree.
Then the youngest daughter said again, 'I am sure all is not right--did not you hear that noise?
But the eldest said, 'It is only our princes, who are shouting for joy at our approach.'
Then they came to another grove of trees, where all the leaves were of gold; and afterwards to a third, where the leaves were all glittering diamonds.
One of the princesses went into each boat, and the soldier stepped into the same boat with the youngest.
'It is only the heat of the weather,' said the princess: 'I feel it very warm too.'
On the other side of the lake stood a fine illuminated castle, from which came the merry music of horns and trumpets.
At this, too, the youngest sister was terribly frightened, but the eldest always silenced her.
They danced on till three o'clock in the morning, and then all their shoes were worn out, so that they were obliged to leave off.
However, on the third night the soldier carried away one of the golden cups as a token of where he had been.
And when the king asked him.
'Where do my twelve daughters dance at night?' he answered, 'With twelve princes in a castle under ground.'
And then he told the king all that had happened, and showed him the three branches and the golden cup which he had brought with him.
There was once a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside.
But the fish said, 'Pray let me live!
I am not a real fish; I am an enchanted prince: put me in the water again, and let me go!'
The fisherman did not much like the business: however, he went to the seashore; and when he came back there the water looked all yellow and green.
My wife Ilsabill Will have her own will, And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee!'
Then the fish came swimming to him, and said, 'Well, what is her will?
What does your wife want?'
'Go home, then,' said the fish; 'she is in the cottage already!'
So the man went home, and saw his wife standing at the door of a nice trim little cottage.
'Come in, come in!' said she; 'is not this much better than the filthy pigsty we had?'
'Ah!' said the fisherman, 'how happily we shall live now!'
'We will try to do so, at least,' said his wife.
'Nonsense!' said the wife; 'he will do it very willingly, I know; go along and try!'
'Well, what does she want now?' said the fish.
'Ah!' said the man, dolefully, 'my wife wants to live in a stone castle.'
'Go home, then,' said the fish; 'she is standing at the gate of it already.'
So away went the fisherman, and found his wife standing before the gate of a great castle.
'See,' said she, 'is not this grand?'
'Well,' said the man, 'now we will live cheerful and happy in this beautiful castle for the rest of our lives.'
'Perhaps we may,' said the wife; 'but let us sleep upon it, before we make up our minds to that.'
'Wife, wife,' said the man, 'why should we wish to be the king?
'But, wife,' said the fisherman, 'how can you be king--the fish cannot make you a king?'
'Husband,' said she, 'say no more about it, but go and try!
So the man went away quite sorrowful to think that his wife should want to be king.
'Well, what would she have now?' said the fish.
'Alas!' said the poor man, 'my wife wants to be king.'
'Go home,' said the fish; 'she is king already.'
Then the fisherman went home; and as he came close to the palace he saw a troop of soldiers, and heard the sound of drums and trumpets.
'Well, wife,' said the fisherman, 'are you king?'
'Yes,' said she, 'I am king.'
And when he had looked at her for a long time, he said, 'Ah, wife! what a fine thing it is to be king!
Now we shall never have anything more to wish for as long as we live.'
'I don't know how that may be,' said she; 'never is a long time.
I am king, it is true; but I begin to be tired of that, and I think I should like to be emperor.'
'Alas, wife! why should you wish to be emperor?' said the fisherman.
'Husband,' said she, 'go to the fish!
I say I will be emperor.'
'Ah, wife!' replied the fisherman, 'the fish cannot make an emperor, I am sure, and I should not like to ask him for such a thing.'
'I am king,' said Ilsabill, 'and you are my slave; so go at once!'
'What would she have now?' said the fish.
'Ah!' said the fisherman, 'she wants to be emperor.'
'Go home,' said the fish; 'she is emperor already.'
And before her stood princes, and dukes, and earls: and the fisherman went up to her and said, 'Wife, are you emperor?'
'Yes,' said she, 'I am emperor.'
'Ah!' said the man, as he gazed upon her, 'what a fine thing it is to be emperor!'
'Husband,' said she, 'why should we stop at being emperor?
'O wife, wife!' said he, 'how can you be pope? there is but one pope at a time in Christendom.'
'Husband,' said she, 'I will be pope this very day.'
'But,' replied the husband, 'the fish cannot make you pope.'
'What nonsense!' said she; 'if he can make an emperor, he can make a pope: go and try him.'
In the middle of the heavens there was a little piece of blue sky, but towards the south all was red, as if a dreadful storm was rising.
'What does she want now?' said the fish.
'Ah!' said the fisherman, 'my wife wants to be pope.'
'Go home,' said the fish; 'she is pope already.'
Then the fisherman went home, and found Ilsabill sitting on a throne that was two miles high.
And she had three great crowns on her head, and around her stood all the pomp and power of the Church.
'Wife,' said the fisherman, as he looked at all this greatness, 'are you pope?'
'Yes,' said she, 'I am pope.'
'Well, wife,' replied he, 'it is a grand thing to be pope; and now you must be easy, for you can be nothing greater.'
'I will think about that,' said the wife.
Then they went to bed: but Dame Ilsabill could not sleep all night for thinking what she should be next.
At last, as she was dropping asleep, morning broke, and the sun rose.
'Ha!' thought she, as she woke up and looked at it through the window, 'after all I cannot prevent the sun rising.'
The fisherman was half asleep, but the thought frightened him so much that he started and fell out of bed.
'Alas, wife!' said he, 'cannot you be easy with being pope?'
'No,' said she, 'I am very uneasy as long as the sun and moon rise without my leave.
'Ah!' said he, 'she wants to be lord of the sun and moon.'
'Go home,' said the fish, 'to your pigsty again.'
And there they live to this very day.
'That is the King of birds,' said the wolf, 'before whom we must bow down.'
In reality the bird was the willow-wren.
'IF that's the case,' said the bear, 'I should very much like to see his royal palace; come, take me thither.'
So they took stock of the hole where the nest lay, and trotted away.
The bear, however, could not rest until he had seen the royal palace, and when a short time had passed, went to it again.
The King and Queen had just flown out, so he peeped in and saw five or six young ones lying there.
'Is that the royal palace?' cried the bear; 'it is a wretched palace, and you are not King's children, you are disreputable children!'
When the young wrens heard that, they were frightfully angry, and screamed: 'No, that we are not!
Our parents are honest people!
Bear, you will have to pay for that!'
The bear and the wolf grew uneasy, and turned back and went into their holes.
You shall suffer for it--we will punish you by a bloody war.'
And the willow-wren summoned everything which flew in the air, not only birds, large and small, but midges, and hornets, bees and flies had to come.
When the time came for the war to begin, the willow-wren sent out spies to discover who was the enemy's commander-in-chief.
'Good,' said the fox, 'but what signal shall we agree upon?'
No one knew that, so the fox said: 'I have a fine long bushy tail, which almost looks like a plume of red feathers.
When the gnat had heard that, she flew away again, and revealed everything, down to the minutest detail, to the willow-wren.
When day broke, and the battle was to begin, all the four-footed animals came running up with such a noise that the earth trembled.
But the willow-wren sent down the hornet, with orders to settle beneath the fox's tail, and sting with all his might.
When the animals saw that, they thought all was lost, and began to flee, each into his hole, and the birds had won the battle.
Then the King and Queen flew home to their children and cried: 'Children, rejoice, eat and drink to your heart's content, we have won the battle!'
So the bear crept thither in the greatest fear, and begged their pardon.
And now at last the young wrens were satisfied, and sat down together and ate and drank, and made merry till quite late into the night.
The princess looked into the spring after her ball, but it was very deep, so deep that she could not see the bottom of it.
Whilst she was speaking, a frog put its head out of the water, and said, 'Princess, why do you weep so bitterly?'
'Alas!' said she, 'what can you do for me, you nasty frog?
My golden ball has fallen into the spring.'
'What nonsense,' thought the princess, 'this silly frog is talking!
So she said to the frog, 'Well, if you will bring me my ball, I will do all you ask.'
The frog called after her, 'Stay, princess, and take me with you as you said,' But she did not stop to hear a word.
'Open the door, my princess dear, Open the door to thy true love here!
And mind the words that thou and I said By the fountain cool, in the greenwood shade.'
Then the princess ran to the door and opened it, and there she saw the frog, whom she had quite forgotten.
At this sight she was sadly frightened, and shutting the door as fast as she could came back to her seat.
The king, her father, seeing that something had frightened her, asked her what was the matter.
Then the king said to the young princess, 'As you have given your word you must keep it; so go and let him in.'
'Pray lift me upon chair,' said he to the princess, 'and let me sit next to you.'
As soon as she had done this, the frog said, 'Put your plate nearer to me, that I may eat out of it.'
This she did, and when he had eaten as much as he could, he said, 'Now I am tired; carry me upstairs, and put me into your bed.'
And the princess, though very unwilling, took him up in her hand, and put him upon the pillow of her own bed, where he slept all night long.
As soon as it was light he jumped up, hopped downstairs, and went out of the house.
'Now, then,' thought the princess, 'at last he is gone, and I shall be troubled with him no more.'
And when the princess opened the door the frog came in, and slept upon her pillow as before, till the morning broke.
And the third night he did the same.
The good advice was followed, and a pot of fat was bought, but they did not know where to put it.
We will set it beneath the altar, and not touch it until we are really in need of it.'
Let me go out today, and you look after the house by yourself.'
'Yes, yes,' answered the mouse, 'by all means go, and if you get anything very good to eat, think of me.
I should like a drop of sweet red christening wine myself.'
All this, however, was untrue; the cat had no cousin, and had not been asked to be godmother.
She went straight to the church, stole to the pot of fat, began to lick at it, and licked the top of the fat off.
'Well, here you are again,' said the mouse, 'no doubt you have had a merry day.'
'All went off well,' answered the cat.
'What name did they give the child?'
'Top off!' said the cat quite coolly.
'Top off!' cried the mouse, 'that is a very odd and uncommon name, is it a usual one in your family?'
'What does that matter,' said the cat, 'it is no worse than Crumb-stealer, as your godchildren are called.'
Before long the cat was seized by another fit of yearning.
She said to the mouse: 'You must do me a favour, and once more manage the house for a day alone.
I am again asked to be godmother, and, as the child has a white ring round its neck, I cannot refuse.'
The good mouse consented, but the cat crept behind the town walls to the church, and devoured half the pot of fat.
'Nothing ever seems so good as what one keeps to oneself,' said she, and was quite satisfied with her day's work.
When she went home the mouse inquired: 'And what was the child christened?'
I never heard the name in my life, I'll wager anything it is not in the calendar!'
The cat's mouth soon began to water for some more licking.
'All good things go in threes,' said she, 'I am asked to stand godmother again.
Half-done!' answered the mouse, 'they are such odd names, they make me very thoughtful.'
During the cat's absence the mouse cleaned the house, and put it in order, but the greedy cat entirely emptied the pot of fat.
'When everything is eaten up one has some peace,' said she to herself, and well filled and fat she did not return home till night.
The mouse at once asked what name had been given to the third child.
'It will not please you more than the others,' said the cat.
'All-gone,' cried the mouse 'that is the most suspicious name of all!
I have never seen it in print.
All-gone; what can that mean?' and she shook her head, curled herself up, and lay down to sleep.
'Yes,' answered the cat, 'you will enjoy it as much as you would enjoy sticking that dainty tongue of yours out of the window.'
They set out on their way, but when they arrived, the pot of fat certainly was still in its place, but it was empty.
'Alas!' said the mouse, 'now I see what has happened, now it comes to light!
You have devoured all when you were standing godmother.
First top off, then half-done, then--' 'Will you hold your tongue,' cried the cat, 'one word more, and I will eat you too.'
'All-gone' was already on the poor mouse's lips; scarcely had she spoken it before the cat sprang on her, seized her, and swallowed her down.
Verily, that is the way of the world.
The king of a great land died, and left his queen to take care of their only child.
This child was a daughter, who was very beautiful; and her mother loved her dearly, and was very kind to her.
And there was a good fairy too, who was fond of the princess, and helped her mother to watch over her.
And she gave her a waiting-maid to ride with her, and give her into the bridegroom's hands; and each had a horse for the journey.
Now the princess's horse was the fairy's gift, and it was called Falada, and could speak.
'Nay,' said the maid, 'if you are thirsty, get off yourself, and stoop down by the water and drink; I shall not be your waiting-maid any longer.'
'Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it, Sadly, sadly, would she rue it.'
But the princess was very gentle and meek, so she said nothing to her maid's ill behaviour, but got upon her horse again.
But the maid answered her, and even spoke more haughtily than before: 'Drink if you will, but I shall not be your waiting-maid.'
And as she leaned down to drink, the lock of hair fell from her bosom, and floated away with the water.
At last, as they drew near the end of their journey, this treacherous servant threatened to kill her mistress if she ever told anyone what had happened.
But Falada saw it all, and marked it well.
Now the name of this lad, that the real bride was to help in watching the king's geese, was Curdken.
But the false bride said to the prince, 'Dear husband, pray do me one piece of kindness.'
'That I will,' said the prince.
Then the slaughterer said he would do as she wished; and cut off the head, and nailed it up under the dark gate.
'Falada, Falada, there thou hangest!'
'Bride, bride, there thou gangest!
Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it, Sadly, sadly, would she rue it.'
Then they went out of the city, and drove the geese on.
O'er hills, dales, and rocks, Away be it whirl'd Till the silvery locks Are all comb'd and curl'd!
So they watched the geese till it grew dark.
'Because, instead of doing any good, she does nothing but tease me all day long.'
Then the king made him tell him what had happened.
And soon came a gale of wind, and carried away Curdken's hat, and away went Curdken after it, while the girl went on combing and curling her hair.
But the old king begged so hard, that she had no peace till she had told him all the tale, from beginning to end, word for word.
Then he called his son and told him that he had only a false bride; for that she was merely a waiting-maid, while the true bride stood by.
When they had eaten and drank, and were very merry, the old king said he would tell them a tale.
'Thou art she!' said the old king; 'and as thou has judged thyself, so shall it be done to thee.'
'With all my heart,' said Partlet, 'let us go and make a holiday of it together.'
So they went to the mountains; and as it was a lovely day, they stayed there till the evening.
While this was passing, a duck came quacking up and cried out, 'You thieving vagabonds, what business have you in my grounds?
I'll give it you well for your insolence!' and upon that she fell upon Chanticleer most lustily.
This she agreed to do; and Chanticleer got upon the box, and drove, crying, 'Now, duck, get on as fast as you can.'
And away they went at a pretty good pace.
Soon afterwards a cat met them, and said, 'Where are you going?'
'All on our way A visit to pay To Mr Korbes, the fox, today.'
Then the cat said, 'Take me with you,' Chanticleer said, 'With all my heart: get up behind, and be sure you do not fall off.'
'Take care of this handsome coach of mine, Nor dirty my pretty red wheels so fine!
Now, mice, be ready, And, wheels, run steady!
For we are going a visit to pay To Mr Korbes, the fox, today.'
Soon after came up a millstone, an egg, a duck, and a pin; and Chanticleer gave them all leave to get into the carriage and go with them.
The river said, 'Run first to the bride, and ask her for a silken cord to draw up the water.'
But the bride said, 'Run first, and bring me my garland that is hanging on a willow in the garden.'
Then Chanticleer was very sorry, and cried bitterly; and all the beasts came and wept with him over poor Partlet.
And six mice built a little hearse to carry her to her grave; and when it was ready they harnessed themselves before it, and Chanticleer drove them.
On the way they met the fox.
'Where are you going, Chanticleer?' said he.
'To bury my Partlet,' said the other.
'May I go with you?' said the fox.
'Yes; but you must get up behind, or my horses will not be able to draw you.'
Then the fox got up behind; and presently the wolf, the bear, the goat, and all the beasts of the wood, came and climbed upon the hearse.
So on they went till they came to a rapid stream.
'How shall we get over?' said Chanticleer.
Then said a straw, 'I will lay myself across, and you may pass over upon me.'
But as the mice were going over, the straw slipped away and fell into the water, and the six mice all fell in and were drowned.
Then a large log of wood came and said, 'I am big enough; I will lay myself across the stream, and you shall pass over upon me.'
So he laid himself down; but they managed so clumsily, that the log of wood fell in and was carried away by the stream.
Thus Chanticleer was left alone with his dead Partlet; and having dug a grave for her, he laid her in it, and made a little hillock over her.
Then he sat down by the grave, and wept and mourned, till at last he died too; and so all were dead.
There were once a man and a woman who had long in vain wished for a child.
At length the woman hoped that God was about to grant her desire.
Then her husband was alarmed, and asked: 'What ails you, dear wife?'
'Ah,' she replied, 'if I can't eat some of the rampion, which is in the garden behind our house, I shall die.'
The man, who loved her, thought: 'Sooner than let your wife die, bring her some of the rampion yourself, let it cost what it will.'
At twilight, he clambered down over the wall into the garden of the enchantress, hastily clutched a handful of rampion, and took it to his wife.
She at once made herself a salad of it, and ate it greedily.
It tasted so good to her--so very good, that the next day she longed for it three times as much as before.
If he was to have any rest, her husband must once more descend into the garden.
'How can you dare,' said she with angry look, 'descend into my garden and steal my rampion like a thief?
You shall suffer for it!'
'Ah,' answered he, 'let mercy take the place of justice, I only made up my mind to do it out of necessity.
My wife saw your rampion from the window, and felt such a longing for it that she would have died if she had not got some to eat.'
Rapunzel grew into the most beautiful child under the sun.
'Rapunzel, Rapunzel, Let down your hair to me.'
After a year or two, it came to pass that the king's son rode through the forest and passed by the tower.
Then he heard a song, which was so charming that he stood still and listened.
This was Rapunzel, who in her solitude passed her time in letting her sweet voice resound.
The king's son wanted to climb up to her, and looked for the door of the tower, but none was to be found.
He rode home, but the singing had so deeply touched his heart, that every day he went out into the forest and listened to it.
Then Rapunzel let down the braids of her hair, and the enchantress climbed up to her.
Immediately the hair fell down and the king's son climbed up.
She said: 'I will willingly go away with you, but I do not know how to get down.
They agreed that until that time he should come to her every evening, for the old woman came by day.
'Ah! you wicked child,' cried the enchantress.
I thought I had separated you from all the world, and yet you have deceived me!'
And she was so pitiless that she took poor Rapunzel into a desert where she had to live in great grief and misery.
The king's son ascended, but instead of finding his dearest Rapunzel, he found the enchantress, who gazed at him with wicked and venomous looks.
Rapunzel is lost to you; you will never see her again.'
The king's son was beside himself with pain, and in his despair he leapt down from the tower.
He escaped with his life, but the thorns into which he fell pierced his eyes.
Then he wandered quite blind about the forest, ate nothing but roots and berries, and did naught but lament and weep over the loss of his dearest wife.
Two of her tears wetted his eyes and they grew clear again, and he could see with them as before.
He led her to his kingdom where he was joyfully received, and they lived for a long time afterwards, happy and contented.
The forester climbed up, brought the child down, and thought to himself: 'You will take him home with you, and bring him up with your Lina.'
He took it home, therefore, and the two children grew up together.
And the one, which he had found on a tree was called Fundevogel, because a bird had carried it away.
Fundevogel and Lina loved each other so dearly that when they did not see each other they were sad.
Lina saw this and said, 'Listen, old Sanna, why are you fetching so much water?'
'If you will never repeat it to anyone, I will tell you why.'
Early next morning the forester got up and went out hunting, and when he was gone the children were still in bed.
Then Lina said to Fundevogel: 'If you will never leave me, I too will never leave you.'
Fundevogel said: 'Neither now, nor ever will I leave you.'
Then said Lina: 'Then will I tell you.
The two children therefore got up, dressed themselves quickly, and went away.
When the water in the kettle was boiling, the cook went into the bedroom to fetch Fundevogel and throw him into it.
But when she came in, and went to the beds, both the children were gone.
Then she was terribly alarmed, and she said to herself: 'What shall I say now when the forester comes home and sees that the children are gone?
They must be followed instantly to get them back again.'
Then the cook sent three servants after them, who were to run and overtake the children.
Fundevogel said: 'Neither now, nor ever.'
Then said Lina: 'Do you become a rose-tree, and I the rose upon it.'
When the three servants came to the forest, nothing was there but a rose-tree and one rose on it, but the children were nowhere.
They had therefore to go out and look for the second time.
The children, however, saw them coming from a distance.
Then Lina said: 'Fundevogel, never leave me, and I will never leave you.'
Fundevogel said: 'Neither now; nor ever.'
Said Lina: 'Then do you become a church, and I'll be the chandelier in it.'
So when the three servants came, nothing was there but a church, with a chandelier in it.
They said therefore to each other: 'What can we do here, let us go home.'
And the cook scolded them and said: 'You fools! why did you not pull the church to pieces, and bring the chandelier home with you?'
And now the old cook herself got on her legs, and went with the three servants in pursuit of the children.
The children, however, saw from afar that the three servants were coming, and the cook waddling after them.
Then said Lina: 'Fundevogel, never leave me, and I will never leave you.'
Then said Fundevogel: 'Neither now, nor ever.'
Said Lina: 'Be a fishpond, and I will be the duck upon it.'
The cook, however, came up to them, and when she saw the pond she lay down by it, and was about to drink it up.
But the duck swam quickly to her, seized her head in its beak and drew her into the water, and there the old witch had to drown.
Then the children went home together, and were heartily delighted, and if they have not died, they are living still.
One summer's morning a little tailor was sitting on his table by the window; he was in good spirits, and sewed with all his might.
Then came a peasant woman down the street crying: 'Good jams, cheap!
The woman came up the three steps to the tailor with her heavy basket, and he made her unpack all the pots for him.
The woman who had hoped to find a good sale, gave him what he desired, but went away quite angry and grumbling.
'This won't taste bitter,' said he, 'but I will just finish the jacket before I take a bite.'
He laid the bread near him, sewed on, and in his joy, made bigger and bigger stitches.
'Hi! who invited you?' said the little tailor, and drove the unbidden guests away.
The flies, however, who understood no German, would not be turned away, but came back again in ever-increasing companies.
When he drew it away and counted, there lay before him no fewer than seven, dead and with legs stretched out.
'Are you a fellow of that sort?' said he, and could not help admiring his own bravery.
'The whole town shall know of this!'
And the little tailor hastened to cut himself a girdle, stitched it, and embroidered on it in large letters: 'Seven at one stroke!'
'What, the town!' he continued, 'the whole world shall hear of it!' and his heart wagged with joy like a lamb's tail.
The tailor put on the girdle, and resolved to go forth into the world, because he thought his workshop was too small for his valour.
In front of the door he observed a bird which had caught itself in the thicket.
It had to go into his pocket with the cheese.
Now he took to the road boldly, and as he was light and nimble, he felt no fatigue.
The road led him up a mountain, and when he had reached the highest point of it, there sat a powerful giant looking peacefully about him.
The little tailor went bravely up, spoke to him, and said: 'Good day, comrade, so you are sitting there overlooking the wide-spread world!
I am just on my way thither, and want to try my luck.
Have you any inclination to go with me?'
The giant looked contemptuously at the tailor, and said: 'You ragamuffin!
'Oh, indeed?' answered the little tailor, and unbuttoned his coat, and showed the giant the girdle, 'there may you read what kind of a man I am!'
Nevertheless, he wished to try him first, and took a stone in his hand and squeezed it together so that water dropped out of it.
'Do that likewise,' said the giant, 'if you have strength.'
'Faith,' said he, 'that was a little better, wasn't it?'
The giant did not know what to say, and could not believe it of the little man.
Then the giant picked up a stone and threw it so high that the eye could scarcely follow it.
The bird, delighted with its liberty, rose, flew away and did not come back.
'How does that shot please you, comrade?' asked the tailor.
'You can certainly throw,' said the giant, 'but now we will see if you are able to carry anything properly.'
'Readily,' answered the little man; 'take you the trunk on your shoulders, and I will raise up the branches and twigs; after all, they are the heaviest.'
When he had fallen down again without injury, the giant said: 'What is this?
Have you not strength enough to hold the weak twig?'
'There is no lack of strength,' answered the little tailor.
'Do you think that could be anything to a man who has struck down seven at one blow?
I leapt over the tree because the huntsmen are shooting down there in the thicket.
Jump as I did, if you can do it.'
The giant said: 'If you are such a valiant fellow, come with me into our cavern and spend the night with us.'
The little tailor was willing, and followed him.
The little tailor looked round and thought: 'It is much more spacious here than in my workshop.'
The giant showed him a bed, and said he was to lie down in it and sleep.
The bed, however, was too big for the little tailor; he did not lie down in it, but crept into a corner.
The giants were terrified, they were afraid that he would strike them all dead, and ran away in a great hurry.
The little tailor went onwards, always following his own pointed nose.
Whilst he lay there, the people came and inspected him on all sides, and read on his girdle: 'Seven at one stroke.'
'Ah!' said they, 'what does the great warrior want here in the midst of peace?
He must be a mighty lord.'
The counsel pleased the king, and he sent one of his courtiers to the little tailor to offer him military service when he awoke.
The ambassador remained standing by the sleeper, waited until he stretched his limbs and opened his eyes, and then conveyed to him this proposal.
'For this very reason have I come here,' the tailor replied, 'I am ready to enter the king's service.'
He was therefore honourably received, and a special dwelling was assigned him.
The soldiers, however, were set against the little tailor, and wished him a thousand miles away.
'What is to be the end of this?' they said among themselves.
'If we quarrel with him, and he strikes about him, seven of us will fall at every blow; not one of us can stand against him.'
They came therefore to a decision, betook themselves in a body to the king, and begged for their dismissal.
'We are not prepared,' said they, 'to stay with a man who kills seven at one stroke.'
He thought about it for a long time, and at last found good counsel.
He sent to the little tailor and caused him to be informed that as he was a great warrior, he had one request to make to him.
'That would indeed be a fine thing for a man like me!' thought the little tailor.
'One is not offered a beautiful princess and half a kingdom every day of one's life!'
The little tailor went forth, and the hundred horsemen followed him.
When he came to the outskirts of the forest, he said to his followers: 'Just stay waiting here, I alone will soon finish off the giants.'
Then he bounded into the forest and looked about right and left.
After a while he perceived both giants.
They lay sleeping under a tree, and snored so that the branches waved up and down.
The little tailor, not idle, gathered two pocketsful of stones, and with these climbed up the tree.
For a long time the giant felt nothing, but at last he awoke, pushed his comrade, and said: 'Why are you knocking me?'
'You must be dreaming,' said the other, 'I am not knocking you.'
They laid themselves down to sleep again, and then the tailor threw a stone down on the second.
'What is the meaning of this?' cried the other 'Why are you pelting me?'
'I am not pelting you,' answered the first, growling.
They disputed about it for a time, but as they were weary they let the matter rest, and their eyes closed once more.
The little tailor began his game again, picked out the biggest stone, and threw it with all his might on the breast of the first giant.
'That is too bad!' cried he, and sprang up like a madman, and pushed his companion against the tree until it shook.
Then the little tailor leapt down.
'But are you not wounded?' asked the horsemen.
'You need not concern yourself about that,' answered the tailor, 'they have not bent one hair of mine.'
The horsemen would not believe him, and rode into the forest; there they found the giants swimming in their blood, and all round about lay the torn-up trees.
The little tailor demanded of the king the promised reward; he, however, repented of his promise, and again bethought himself how he could get rid of the hero.
'Before you receive my daughter, and the half of my kingdom,' said he to him, 'you must perform one more heroic deed.
In the forest roams a unicorn which does great harm, and you must catch it first.'
'I fear one unicorn still less than two giants.
Seven at one blow, is my kind of affair.'
He took a rope and an axe with him, went forth into the forest, and again bade those who were sent with him to wait outside.
The unicorn soon came towards him, and rushed directly on the tailor, as if it would gore him with its horn without more ado.
The king still would not give him the promised reward, and made a third demand.
Before the wedding the tailor was to catch him a wild boar that made great havoc in the forest, and the huntsmen should give him their help.
'Willingly,' said the tailor, 'that is child's play!'
The little tailor called the huntsmen thither that they might see the prisoner with their own eyes.
The wedding was held with great magnificence and small joy, and out of a tailor a king was made.
The woman was satisfied with this; but the king's armour-bearer, who had heard all, was friendly with the young lord, and informed him of the whole plot.
'I'll put a screw into that business,' said the little tailor.
I smote seven at one blow.
I killed two giants, I brought away one unicorn, and caught a wild boar, and am I to fear those who are standing outside the room.'
So the little tailor was and remained a king to the end of his life.
Hard by a great forest dwelt a poor wood-cutter with his wife and his two children.
The boy was called Hansel and the girl Gretel.
He had little to bite and to break, and once when great dearth fell on the land, he could no longer procure even daily bread.
How are we to feed our poor children, when we no longer have anything even for ourselves?'
They will not find the way home again, and we shall be rid of them.'
'But I feel very sorry for the poor children, all the same,' said the man.
The two children had also not been able to sleep for hunger, and had heard what their stepmother had said to their father.
Gretel wept bitter tears, and said to Hansel: 'Now all is over with us.'
'Be quiet, Gretel,' said Hansel, 'do not distress yourself, I will soon find a way to help us.'
And when the old folks had fallen asleep, he got up, put on his little coat, opened the door below, and crept outside.
The moon shone brightly, and the white pebbles which lay in front of the house glittered like real silver pennies.
Hansel stooped and stuffed the little pocket of his coat with as many as he could get in.
Gretel took the bread under her apron, as Hansel had the pebbles in his pocket.
Then they all set out together on the way to the forest.
When they had walked a short time, Hansel stood still and peeped back at the house, and did so again and again.
His father said: 'Hansel, what are you looking at there and staying behind for?
Pay attention, and do not forget how to use your legs.'
'Ah, father,' said Hansel, 'I am looking at my little white cat, which is sitting up on the roof, and wants to say goodbye to me.'
The wife said: 'Fool, that is not your little cat, that is the morning sun which is shining on the chimneys.'
Hansel, however, had not been looking back at the cat, but had been constantly throwing one of the white pebble-stones out of his pocket on the road.
Hansel and Gretel gathered brushwood together, as high as a little hill.
When we have done, we will come back and fetch you away.'
It was not the axe, however, but a branch which he had fastened to a withered tree which the wind was blowing backwards and forwards.
And as they had been sitting such a long time, their eyes closed with fatigue, and they fell fast asleep.
When at last they awoke, it was already dark night.
Gretel began to cry and said: 'How are we to get out of the forest now?'
But Hansel comforted her and said: 'Just wait a little, until the moon has risen, and then we will soon find the way.'
They walked the whole night long, and by break of day came once more to their father's house.
The father, however, rejoiced, for it had cut him to the heart to leave them behind alone.
The man's heart was heavy, and he thought: 'It would be better for you to share the last mouthful with your children.'
The woman, however, would listen to nothing that he had to say, but scolded and reproached him.
He who says A must say B, likewise, and as he had yielded the first time, he had to do so a second time also.
The children, however, were still awake and had heard the conversation.
Nevertheless he comforted his little sister, and said: 'Do not cry, Gretel, go to sleep quietly, the good God will help us.'
Early in the morning came the woman, and took the children out of their beds.
Their piece of bread was given to them, but it was still smaller than the time before.
On the way into the forest Hansel crumbled his in his pocket, and often stood still and threw a morsel on the ground.
'Hansel, why do you stop and look round?' said the father, 'go on.'
'I am looking back at my little pigeon which is sitting on the roof, and wants to say goodbye to me,' answered Hansel.
'Fool!' said the woman, 'that is not your little pigeon, that is the morning sun that is shining on the chimney.'
Hansel, however little by little, threw all the crumbs on the path.
The woman led the children still deeper into the forest, where they had never in their lives been before.
When it was noon, Gretel shared her piece of bread with Hansel, who had scattered his by the way.
Then they fell asleep and evening passed, but no one came to the poor children.
Hansel said to Gretel: 'We shall soon find the way,' but they did not find it.
And as they were so weary that their legs would carry them no longer, they lay down beneath a tree and fell asleep.
It was now three mornings since they had left their father's house.
They began to walk again, but they always came deeper into the forest, and if help did not come soon, they must die of hunger and weariness.
When it was mid-day, they saw a beautiful snow-white bird sitting on a bough, which sang so delightfully that they stood still and listened to it.
'We will set to work on that,' said Hansel, 'and have a good meal.
I will eat a bit of the roof, and you Gretel, can eat some of the window, it will taste sweet.'
Hansel reached up above, and broke off a little of the roof to try how it tasted, and Gretel leant against the window and nibbled at the panes.
'Nibble, nibble, gnaw, Who is nibbling at my little house?'
and went on eating without disturbing themselves.
Suddenly the door opened, and a woman as old as the hills, who supported herself on crutches, came creeping out.
Hansel and Gretel were so terribly frightened that they let fall what they had in their hands.
The old woman, however, nodded her head, and said: 'Oh, you dear children, who has brought you here? do come in, and stay with me.
No harm shall happen to you.'
She took them both by the hand, and led them into her little house.
Then good food was set before them, milk and pancakes, with sugar, apples, and nuts.
Afterwards two pretty little beds were covered with clean white linen, and Hansel and Gretel lay down in them, and thought they were in heaven.
When a child fell into her power, she killed it, cooked and ate it, and that was a feast day with her.
Witches have red eyes, and cannot see far, but they have a keen scent like the beasts, and are aware when human beings draw near.
When Hansel and Gretel came into her neighbourhood, she laughed with malice, and said mockingly: 'I have them, they shall not escape me again!'
Then she seized Hansel with her shrivelled hand, carried him into a little stable, and locked him in behind a grated door.
Scream as he might, it would not help him.
When he is fat, I will eat him.'
Gretel began to weep bitterly, but it was all in vain, for she was forced to do what the wicked witch commanded.
And now the best food was cooked for poor Hansel, but Gretel got nothing but crab-shells.
Every morning the woman crept to the little stable, and cried: 'Hansel, stretch out your finger that I may feel if you will soon be fat.'
When four weeks had gone by, and Hansel still remained thin, she was seized with impatience and would not wait any longer.
'Now, then, Gretel,' she cried to the girl, 'stir yourself, and bring some water.
Let Hansel be fat or lean, tomorrow I will kill him, and cook him.'
Ah, how the poor little sister did lament when she had to fetch the water, and how her tears did flow down her cheeks!
'Dear God, do help us,' she cried.
'If the wild beasts in the forest had but devoured us, we should at any rate have died together.'
'Just keep your noise to yourself,' said the old woman, 'it won't help you at all.'
Early in the morning, Gretel had to go out and hang up the cauldron with the water, and light the fire.
'We will bake first,' said the old woman, 'I have already heated the oven, and kneaded the dough.'
She pushed poor Gretel out to the oven, from which flames of fire were already darting.
'Creep in,' said the witch, 'and see if it is properly heated, so that we can put the bread in.'
And once Gretel was inside, she intended to shut the oven and let her bake in it, and then she would eat her, too.
But Gretel saw what she had in mind, and said: 'I do not know how I am to do it; how do I get in?'
'Silly goose,' said the old woman.
'The door is big enough; just look, I can get in myself!' and she crept up and thrust her head into the oven.
Then Gretel gave her a push that drove her far into it, and shut the iron door, and fastened the bolt.
Oh! then she began to howl quite horribly, but Gretel ran away and the godless witch was miserably burnt to death.
Gretel, however, ran like lightning to Hansel, opened his little stable, and cried: 'Hansel, we are saved!
Then Hansel sprang like a bird from its cage when the door is opened.
How they did rejoice and embrace each other, and dance about and kiss each other!
'But now we must be off,' said Hansel, 'that we may get out of the witch's forest.'
When they had walked for two hours, they came to a great stretch of water.
'We cannot cross,' said Hansel, 'I see no foot-plank, and no bridge.'
'And there is also no ferry,' answered Gretel, 'but a white duck is swimming there: if I ask her, she will help us over.'
'Little duck, little duck, dost thou see, Hansel and Gretel are waiting for thee?
There's never a plank, or bridge in sight, Take us across on thy back so white.'
The duck came to them, and Hansel seated himself on its back, and told his sister to sit by him.
'No,' replied Gretel, 'that will be too heavy for the little duck; she shall take us across, one after the other.'
Then they began to run, rushed into the parlour, and threw themselves round their father's neck.
The man had not known one happy hour since he had left the children in the forest; the woman, however, was dead.
Gretel emptied her pinafore until pearls and precious stones ran about the room, and Hansel threw one handful after another out of his pocket to add to them.
Then all anxiety was at an end, and they lived together in perfect happiness.
My tale is done, there runs a mouse; whosoever catches it, may make himself a big fur cap out of it.
Once upon a time, a mouse, a bird, and a sausage, entered into partnership and set up house together.
For a long time all went well; they lived in great comfort, and prospered so far as to be able to add considerably to their stores.
The bird's duty was to fly daily into the wood and bring in fuel; the mouse fetched the water, and the sausage saw to the cooking.
When people are too well off they always begin to long for something new.
They therefore drew lots, and it fell to the sausage to bring in the wood, to the mouse to cook, and to the bird to fetch the water.
But the sausage remained so long away, that they became uneasy, and the bird flew out to meet him.
He picked up the wood, and flew sadly home, and told the mouse all he had seen and heard.
They were both very unhappy, but agreed to make the best of things and to remain with one another.
Presently the bird came in and wanted to serve up the dinner, but he could nowhere see the cook.
In his alarm and flurry, he threw the wood here and there about the floor, called and searched, but no cook was to be found.
Then some of the wood that had been carelessly thrown down, caught fire and began to blaze.
Once upon a time there was a widow who had two daughters; one of them was beautiful and industrious, the other ugly and lazy.
Her stepmother sent her out every day to sit by the well in the high road, there to spin until she made her fingers bleed.
The girl went back to the well not knowing what to do, and at last in her distress she jumped into the water after the spindle.
She remembered nothing more until she awoke and found herself in a beautiful meadow, full of sunshine, and with countless flowers blooming in every direction.
So she took the bread-shovel and drew them all out.
She went on a little farther, till she came to a tree full of apples.
'Shake me, shake me, I pray,' cried the tree; 'my apples, one and all, are ripe.'
Then she carefully gathered the apples together in a heap and walked on again.
But the old woman called after her, 'What are you afraid of, dear child?
Stay with me; if you will do the work of my house properly for me, I will make you very happy.
The old woman spoke so kindly, that the girl summoned up courage and agreed to enter into her service.
The old woman was as good as her word: she never spoke angrily to her, and gave her roast and boiled meats every day.
So she stayed on with Mother Holle for some time, and then she began to grow unhappy.
Thereupon she led the girl by the hand up to a broad gateway.
'That is a reward for your industry,' said Mother Holle, and as she spoke she handed her the spindle which she had dropped into the well.
The gate was then closed, and the girl found herself back in the old world close to her mother's house.
Your golden daughter's come back to you.'
Then she went in to her mother and sister, and as she was so richly covered with gold, they gave her a warm welcome.
Like her sister she awoke in the beautiful meadow, and walked over it till she came to the oven.
'Take us out, take us out, or alas! we shall be burnt to a cinder; we were baked through long ago,' cried the loaves as before.
But the lazy girl answered, 'Do you think I am going to dirty my hands for you?' and walked on.
Presently she came to the apple-tree.
'Shake me, shake me, I pray; my apples, one and all, are ripe,' it cried.
But she only answered, 'A nice thing to ask me to do, one of the apples might fall on my head,' and passed on.
The first day she was very obedient and industrious, and exerted herself to please Mother Holle, for she thought of the gold she should get in return.
Worse still, she neglected to make the old woman's bed properly, and forgot to shake it so that the feathers might fly about.
So Mother Holle very soon got tired of her, and told her she might go.
The lazy girl was delighted at this, and thought to herself, 'The gold will soon be mine.'
'That is in return for your services,' said the old woman, and she shut the gate.
Your dirty daughter's come back to you.'
But, try what she would, she could not get the pitch off and it stuck to her as long as she lived.
'I will take great care,' said Little Red-Cap to her mother, and gave her hand on it.
The grandmother lived out in the wood, half a league from the village, and just as Little Red-Cap entered the wood, a wolf met her.
Red-Cap did not know what a wicked creature he was, and was not at all afraid of him.
'Good day, Little Red-Cap,' said he.
'Whither away so early, Little Red-Cap?'
'What have you got in your apron?'
'Cake and wine; yesterday was baking-day, so poor sick grandmother is to have something good, to make her stronger.'
'Where does your grandmother live, Little Red-Cap?'
The wolf thought to himself: 'What a tender young creature! what a nice plump mouthful--she will be better to eat than the old woman.
I must act craftily, so as to catch both.'
Meanwhile the wolf ran straight to the grandmother's house and knocked at the door.
'Little Red-Cap,' replied the wolf.
'She is bringing cake and wine; open the door.'
'Lift the latch,' called out the grandmother, 'I am too weak, and cannot get up.'
The wolf lifted the latch, the door sprang open, and without saying a word he went straight to the grandmother's bed, and devoured her.
Then he put on her clothes, dressed himself in her cap laid himself in bed and drew the curtains.
She called out: 'Good morning,' but received no answer; so she went to the bed and drew back the curtains.
There lay her grandmother with her cap pulled far over her face, and looking very strange.
'Oh! grandmother,' she said, 'what big ears you have!'
'The better to hear you with, my child,' was the reply.
'But, grandmother, what big eyes you have!' she said.
'The better to see you with, my dear.'
'But, grandmother, what large hands you have!'
'The better to hug you with.'
'Oh! but, grandmother, what a terrible big mouth you have!'
'The better to eat you with!'
And scarcely had the wolf said this, than with one bound he was out of bed and swallowed up Red-Cap.
When the wolf had appeased his appetite, he lay down again in the bed, fell asleep and began to snore very loud.
The huntsman was just passing the house, and thought to himself: 'How the old woman is snoring!
I must just see if she wants anything.'
So he went into the room, and when he came to the bed, he saw that the wolf was lying in it.
'Do I find you here, you old sinner!' said he.
'I have long sought you!'
How dark it was inside the wolf'; and after that the aged grandmother came out alive also, but scarcely able to breathe.
Then all three were delighted.
It also related that once when Red-Cap was again taking cakes to the old grandmother, another wolf spoke to her, and tried to entice her from the path.
'Well,' said the grandmother, 'we will shut the door, that he may not come in.'
Soon afterwards the wolf knocked, and cried: 'Open the door, grandmother, I am Little Red-Cap, and am bringing you some cakes.'
But the grandmother saw what was in his thoughts.
Red-Cap carried until the great trough was quite full.
But Red-Cap went joyously home, and no one ever did anything to harm her again.
There was once a miller who had one beautiful daughter, and as she was grown up, he was anxious that she should be well married and provided for.
He said to himself, 'I will give her to the first suitable man who comes and asks for her hand.'
But the girl did not care for the man as a girl ought to care for her betrothed husband.
She did not feel that she could trust him, and she could not look at him nor think of him without an inward shudder.
One day he said to her, 'You have not yet paid me a visit, although we have been betrothed for some time.'
'I do not know where your house is,' she answered.
'My house is out there in the dark forest,' he said.
She tried to excuse herself by saying that she would not be able to find the way thither.
She walked the whole day until she came to the deepest, darkest part of the forest.
There she saw a lonely house, looking so grim and mysterious, that it did not please her at all.
She stepped inside, but not a soul was to be seen, and a great silence reigned throughout.
'Turn back, turn back, young maiden fair, Linger not in this murderers' lair.'
The girl looked up and saw that the voice came from a bird hanging in a cage on the wall.
The girl passed on, going from room to room of the house, but they were all empty, and still she saw no one.
At last she came to the cellar, and there sat a very, very old woman, who could not keep her head from shaking.
'Can you tell me,' asked the girl, 'if my betrothed husband lives here?'
'Ah, you poor child,' answered the old woman, 'what a place for you to come to!
This is a murderers' den.
You think yourself a promised bride, and that your marriage will soon take place, but it is with death that you will keep your marriage feast.
Look, do you see that large cauldron of water which I am obliged to keep on the fire!
As soon as they have you in their power they will kill you without mercy, and cook and eat you, for they are eaters of men.
If I did not take pity on you and save you, you would be lost.'
Thereupon the old woman led her behind a large cask, which quite hid her from view.
'Keep as still as a mouse,' she said; 'do not move or speak, or it will be all over with you.
Tonight, when the robbers are all asleep, we will flee together.
I have long been waiting for an opportunity to escape.'
The words were hardly out of her mouth when the godless crew returned, dragging another young girl along with them.
They were all drunk, and paid no heed to her cries and lamentations.
Then they tore off her dainty clothing, laid her on a table, and cut her beautiful body into pieces, and sprinkled salt upon it.
The poor betrothed girl crouched trembling and shuddering behind the cask, for she saw what a terrible fate had been intended for her by the robbers.
The robber took a light and began looking for it, but he could not find it.
'Have you looked behind the large cask?' said one of the others.
But the old woman called out, 'Come and eat your suppers, and let the thing be till tomorrow; the finger won't run away.'
'The old woman is right,' said the robbers, and they ceased looking for the finger and sat down.
The old woman then mixed a sleeping draught with their wine, and before long they were all lying on the floor of the cellar, fast asleep and snoring.
As soon as the girl was assured of this, she came from behind the cask.
All night long they walked, and it was morning before they reached the mill.
Then the girl told her father all that had happened.
The day came that had been fixed for the marriage.
The bridegroom arrived and also a large company of guests, for the miller had taken care to invite all his friends and relations.
As they sat at the feast, each guest in turn was asked to tell a tale; the bride sat still and did not say a word.
'And you, my love,' said the bridegroom, turning to her, 'is there no tale you know?
'I will tell you a dream, then,' said the bride.
and again a second time it said these words.'
'My darling, this is only a dream.'
'I went on through the house from room to room, but they were all empty, and everything was so grim and mysterious.
At last I went down to the cellar, and there sat a very, very old woman, who could not keep her head still.
'The old woman hid me behind a large cask, and scarcely had she done this when the robbers returned home, dragging a young girl along with them.
They gave her three kinds of wine to drink, white, red, and yellow, and with that she died.'
'Then they tore off her dainty clothing, and cut her beautiful body into pieces and sprinkled salt upon it.'
And here is the finger with the ring.'
And with these words the bride drew forth the finger and shewed it to the assembled guests.
The bridegroom, who during this recital had grown deadly pale, up and tried to escape, but the guests seized him and held him fast.
They delivered him up to justice, and he and all his murderous band were condemned to death for their wicked deeds.
A poor woodman sat in his cottage one night, smoking his pipe by the fireside, while his wife sat by his side spinning.
'What you say is very true,' said the wife, sighing, and turning round her wheel; 'how happy should I be if I had but one child!
If it were ever so small--nay, if it were no bigger than my thumb--I should be very happy, and love it dearly.'
So they said, 'Well, we cannot say we have not got what we wished for, and, little as he is, we will love him dearly.'
And they called him Thomas Thumb.
Still, his eyes were sharp and sparkling, and he soon showed himself to be a clever little fellow, who always knew well what he was about.
'Oh, father,' cried Tom, 'I will take care of that; the cart shall be in the wood by the time you want it.'
Then the woodman laughed, and said, 'How can that be? you cannot reach up to the horse's bridle.'
'Never mind that, father,' said Tom; 'if my mother will only harness the horse, I will get into his ear and tell him which way to go.'
'Well,' said the father, 'we will try for once.'
It happened that as the horse was going a little too fast, and Tom was calling out, 'Gently! gently!' two strangers came up.
'That is queer, indeed,' said the other; 'let us follow the cart, and see where it goes.'
So they went on into the wood, till at last they came to the place where the woodman was.
Then Tom Thumb, seeing his father, cried out, 'See, father, here I am with the cart, all right and safe! now take me down!'
The two strangers were all this time looking on, and did not know what to say for wonder.
So they went up to the woodman, and asked him what he would take for the little man.
'He will be better off,' said they, 'with us than with you.'
'I won't sell him at all,' said the father; 'my own flesh and blood is dearer to me than all the silver and gold in the world.'
So the woodman at last said he would sell Tom to the strangers for a large piece of gold, and they paid the price.
'Where would you like to sit?' said one of them.
So they did as he wished; and when Tom had taken leave of his father they took him away with them.
They journeyed on till it began to be dusky, and then the little man said, 'Let me get down, I'm tired.'
So the man took off his hat, and put him down on a clod of earth, in a ploughed field by the side of the road.
But Tom ran about amongst the furrows, and at last slipped into an old mouse-hole.
'Good night, my masters!' said he, 'I'm off! mind and look sharp after me the next time.'
When Tom found they were gone, he came out of his hiding-place.
'What dangerous walking it is,' said he, 'in this ploughed field!
If I were to fall from one of these great clods, I should undoubtedly break my neck.'
At last, by good luck, he found a large empty snail-shell.
'This is lucky,' said he, 'I can sleep here very well'; and in he crept.
'I'll tell you!' cried Tom.
'What noise was that?' said the thief, frightened; 'I'm sure I heard someone speak.'
They stood still listening, and Tom said, 'Take me with you, and I'll soon show you how to get the parson's money.'
'But where are you?' said they.
'Look about on the ground,' answered he, 'and listen where the sound comes from.'
At last the thieves found him out, and lifted him up in their hands.
'You little urchin!' they said, 'what can you do for us?'
'Why, I can get between the iron window-bars of the parson's house, and throw you out whatever you want.'
'That's a good thought,' said the thieves; 'come along, we shall see what you can do.'
At this the thieves were frightened, and said, 'Softly, softly!
Speak low, that you may not awaken anybody.'
But Tom seemed as if he did not understand them, and bawled out again, 'How much will you have?
Shall I throw it all out?'
Now the cook lay in the next room; and hearing a noise she raised herself up in her bed and listened.
So they came back and whispered softly to him, saying, 'Now let us have no more of your roguish jokes; but throw us out some of the money.'
Then Tom called out as loud as he could, 'Very well! hold your hands! here it comes.'
The cook heard this quite plain, so she sprang out of bed, and ran to open the door.
The thieves ran off as if a wolf was at their tails: and the maid, having groped about and found nothing, went away for a light.
But alas! how woefully he was undone! what crosses and sorrows happen to us all in this world!
'Good lack-a-day!' said he, 'how came I to tumble into the mill?'
At last down he went into her stomach.
'It is rather dark,' said he; 'they forgot to build windows in this room to let the sun in; a candle would be no bad thing.'
At last he cried out as loud as he could, 'Don't bring me any more hay!
Don't bring me any more hay!'
But the parson said, 'Woman, thou art surely mad!'
However, he went with her into the cow-house, to try and see what was the matter.
Scarcely had they set foot on the threshold, when Tom called out, 'Don't bring me any more hay!'
Then the parson himself was frightened; and thinking the cow was surely bewitched, told his man to kill her on the spot.
So the cow was killed, and cut up; and the stomach, in which Tom lay, was thrown out upon a dunghill.
A hungry wolf sprang out, and swallowed up the whole stomach, with Tom in it, at one gulp, and ran away.
'Where's that?' said the wolf.
'In such and such a house,' said Tom, describing his own father's house.
This was just what Tom had reckoned upon; and now he began to set up a great shout, making all the noise he could.
'Will you be easy?' said the wolf; 'you'll awaken everybody in the house if you make such a clatter.'
'Do you stay behind,' said the woodman, 'and when I have knocked him on the head you must rip him up with the scythe.'
Tom heard all this, and cried out, 'Father, father!
I am here, the wolf has swallowed me.'
'Ah!' said the father, 'what fears we have had for you!'
'Why, where have you been?' said his father.
'I have been in a mouse-hole--and in a snail-shell--and down a cow's throat--and in the wolf's belly; and yet here I am again, safe and sound.'
'Well,' said they, 'you are come back, and we will not sell you again for all the riches in the world.'
By the side of a wood, in a country a long way off, ran a fine stream of water; and upon the stream there stood a mill.
The miller's house was close by, and the miller, you must know, had a very beautiful daughter.
'Alas!' said she, 'I must spin this straw into gold, and I know not how.'
'What will you give me,' said the hobgoblin, 'to do it for you?'
'My necklace,' replied the maiden.
'Round about, round about, Lo and behold!
Reel away, reel away, Straw into gold!'
And round about the wheel went merrily; the work was quickly done, and the straw was all spun into gold.
'The ring on my finger,' said she.
till, long before morning, all was done again.
As soon as she was alone that dwarf came in, and said, 'What will you give me to spin gold for you this third time?'
'I have nothing left,' said she.
'Then say you will give me,' said the little man, 'the first little child that you may have when you are queen.'
'That may never be,' thought the miller's daughter: and as she knew no other way to get her task done, she said she would do what he asked.
Round went the wheel again to the old song, and the manikin once more spun the heap into gold.
The king came in the morning, and, finding all he wanted, was forced to keep his word; so he married the miller's daughter, and she really became queen.
At the birth of her first little child she was very glad, and forgot the dwarf, and what she had said.
But one day he came into her room, where she was sitting playing with her baby, and put her in mind of it.
Today I'll brew, tomorrow bake; Merrily I'll dance and sing, For next day will a stranger bring.
'Can your name be RUMPELSTILTSKIN?' said the lady slyly.
It came to pass that the master one day said to her: 'Gretel, there is a guest coming this evening; prepare me two fowls very daintily.'
'I will see to it, master,' answered Gretel.
She killed two fowls, scalded them, plucked them, put them on the spit, and towards evening set them before the fire, that they might roast.
The fowls began to turn brown, and were nearly ready, but the guest had not yet arrived.
The master said: 'I will run myself, and fetch the guest.'
Meanwhile, I will run into the cellar, and take a drink.'
Then she went and put the fowls down again to the fire, basted them, and drove the spit merrily round.
But as the roast meat smelt so good, Gretel thought: 'Something might be wrong, it ought to be tasted!'
She touched it with her finger, and said: 'Ah! how good fowls are!
It certainly is a sin and a shame that they are not eaten at the right time!'
I had better take it off and eat it.'
When the two wings were eaten, she went and looked for her master, and did not see him.
It suddenly occurred to her: 'Who knows?
They are perhaps not coming at all, and have turned in somewhere.'
So she ran into the cellar again, took an enormous drink and ate up the one chicken in great glee.
So she took another hearty drink, and let the second chicken follow the first.
While she was making the most of it, her master came and cried: 'Hurry up, Gretel, the guest is coming directly after me!'
'Yes, sir, I will soon serve up,' answered Gretel.
Presently the guest came, and knocked politely and courteously at the house-door.
Just listen how he is sharpening the knife for it!'
The guest heard the sharpening, and hurried down the steps again as fast as he could.
Gretel was not idle; she ran screaming to her master, and cried: 'You have invited a fine guest!'
What do you mean by that?'
'Yes,' said she, 'he has taken the chickens which I was just going to serve up, off the dish, and has run away with them!'
'That's a nice trick!' said her master, and lamented the fine chickens.
'If he had but left me one, so that something remained for me to eat.'
He called to him to stop, but the guest pretended not to hear.
And he used to look towards the table with his eyes full of tears.
Once, too, his trembling hands could not hold the bowl, and it fell to the ground and broke.
The young wife scolded him, but he said nothing and only sighed.
Then they brought him a wooden bowl for a few half-pence, out of which he had to eat.
They were once sitting thus when the little grandson of four years old began to gather together some bits of wood upon the ground.
'What are you doing there?' asked the father.
'I am making a little trough,' answered the child, 'for father and mother to eat out of when I am big.'
The man and his wife looked at each other for a while, and presently began to cry.
There was a certain village wherein no one lived but really rich peasants, and just one poor one, whom they called the little peasant.
He had not even so much as a cow, and still less money to buy one, and yet he and his wife did so wish to have one.
The cow-herd said: 'All right,' and took it in his arms and carried it to the pasture, and set it among the grass.
The little calf always remained standing like one which was eating, and the cow-herd said: 'It will soon run by itself, just look how it eats already!'
The cow-herd answered: 'It is still standing out there eating.
It would not stop and come with us.'
But the little peasant said: 'Oh, but I must have my beast back again.'
Then they went back to the meadow together, but someone had stolen the calf, and it was gone.
The cow-herd said: 'It must have run away.'
The miller's wife was alone in the house, and said to the peasant: 'Lay yourself on the straw there,' and gave him a slice of bread and cheese.
The peasant ate it, and lay down with his skin beside him, and the woman thought: 'He is tired and has gone to sleep.'
In the meantime came the parson; the miller's wife received him well, and said: 'My husband is out, so we will have a feast.'
Then the woman served up four different things, roast meat, salad, cakes, and wine.
Just as they were about to sit down and eat, there was a knocking outside.
The woman said: 'Oh, heavens!
Then she opened the door for her husband, and said: 'Thank heaven, you are back again!
There is such a storm, it looks as if the world were coming to an end.'
The miller saw the peasant lying on the straw, and asked, 'What is that fellow doing there?'
The man said: 'I have no objection, but be quick and get me something to eat.'
The woman said: 'But I have nothing but bread and cheese.'
The peasant did not require to be invited twice, but got up and ate.
After this the miller saw the skin in which the raven was, lying on the ground, and asked: 'What have you there?'
The peasant answered: 'I have a soothsayer inside it.'
'Can he foretell anything to me?' said the miller.
'Why not?' answered the peasant: 'but he only says four things, and the fifth he keeps to himself.'
The miller was curious, and said: 'Let him foretell something for once.'
Then the peasant pinched the raven's head, so that he croaked and made a noise like krr, krr.
The miller said: 'What did he say?'
The peasant answered: 'In the first place, he says that there is some wine hidden under the pillow.'
'Bless me!' cried the miller, and went there and found the wine.
The peasant made the raven croak again, and said: 'In the second place, he says that there is some roast meat in the tiled stove.'
'Upon my word!' cried the miller, and went thither, and found the roast meat.
The peasant made the raven prophesy still more, and said: 'Thirdly, he says that there is some salad on the bed.'
'That would be a fine thing!' cried the miller, and went there and found the salad.
At last the peasant pinched the raven once more till he croaked, and said: 'Fourthly, he says that there are some cakes under the bed.'
'That would be a fine thing!' cried the miller, and looked there, and found the cakes.
So they ate, and after that they bargained how much the miller was to give for the fifth prophecy, until they agreed on three hundred talers.
Then the peasant once more pinched the raven's head till he croaked loudly.
The miller asked: 'What did he say?'
The peasant replied: 'He says that the Devil is hiding outside there in the closet on the porch.'
The miller said: 'The Devil must go out,' and opened the house-door; then the woman was forced to give up the keys, and the peasant unlocked the closet.
The parson ran out as fast as he could, and the miller said: 'It was true; I saw the black rascal with my own eyes.'
The peasant, however, made off next morning by daybreak with the three hundred talers.
Then the small peasant was brought before the mayor, and bidden to say from whence his wealth came.
He answered: 'I sold my cow's skin in the town, for three hundred talers.'
The mayor, however, said: 'But my servant must go first.'
The innocent little peasant was unanimously sentenced to death, and was to be rolled into the water, in a barrel pierced full of holes.
He was led forth, and a priest was brought who was to say a mass for his soul.
He said to him: 'I set you free from the closet, set me free from the barrel.'
The shepherd hearing that, came up to him, and asked: 'What are you about?
What is it that you will not do?'
The peasant said: 'They want to make me mayor, if I will but put myself in the barrel, but I will not do it.'
The shepherd said: 'If nothing more than that is needful in order to be mayor, I would get into the barrel at once.'
The peasant said: 'If you will get in, you will be mayor.'
The shepherd was willing, and got in, and the peasant shut the top down on him; then he took the shepherd's flock for himself, and drove it away.
The parson went to the crowd, and declared that the mass had been said.
Then they came and rolled the barrel towards the water.
When the barrel began to roll, the shepherd cried: 'I am quite willing to be mayor.'
Then the peasants were astonished, and said: 'Peasant, from whence do you come?
Have you come out of the water?'
Said the peasants: 'Are there any more there?'
'Oh, yes,' said he, 'more than I could want.'
Then the peasants made up their minds that they too would fetch some sheep for themselves, a flock apiece, but the mayor said: 'I come first.'
The mayor pressed forward and said: 'I will go down first, and look about me, and if things promise well I'll call you.'
So he jumped in; splash! went the water; it sounded as if he were calling them, and the whole crowd plunged in after him as one man.
Then the entire village was dead, and the small peasant, as sole heir, became a rich man.
There was once a man called Frederick: he had a wife whose name was Catherine, and they had not long been married.
'Very well,' said she, 'it shall all be ready.'
When dinner-time drew nigh, Catherine took a nice steak, which was all the meat she had, and put it on the fire to fry.
So she left the pan on the fire and took a large jug and went into the cellar and tapped the ale cask.
The beer ran into the jug and Catherine stood looking on.
At last it popped into her head, 'The dog is not shut up--he may be running away with the steak; that's well thought of.'
So up she ran from the cellar; and sure enough the rascally cur had got the steak in his mouth, and was making off with it.
Away ran Catherine, and away ran the dog across the field: but he ran faster than she, and stuck close to the steak.
'It's all gone, and "what can't be cured must be endured",' said Catherine.
So she turned round; and as she had run a good way and was tired, she walked home leisurely to cool herself.
When she got to the cellar stairs she saw what had happened.
'My stars!' said she, 'what shall I do to keep Frederick from seeing all this slopping about?'
'What a lucky thing,' said she, 'that we kept that meal! we have now a good use for it.'
'Ah! well,' said she, 'when one goes another may as well follow.'
Then she strewed the meal all about the cellar, and was quite pleased with her cleverness, and said, 'How very neat and clean it looks!'
At noon Frederick came home.
'Now, wife,' cried he, 'what have you for dinner?'
'Kate, Kate,' said he, 'how could you do all this?'
Why did you leave the steak to fry, and the ale to run, and then spoil all the meal?'
'Why, Frederick,' said she, 'I did not know I was doing wrong; you should have told me before.'
The husband thought to himself, 'If my wife manages matters thus, I must look sharp myself.'
Now he had a good deal of gold in the house: so he said to Catherine, 'What pretty yellow buttons these are!
I shall put them into a box and bury them in the garden; but take care that you never go near or meddle with them.'
'No, Frederick,' said she, 'that I never will.'
As soon as he was gone, there came by some pedlars with earthenware plates and dishes, and they asked her whether she would buy.
'Oh dear me, I should like to buy very much, but I have no money: if you had any use for yellow buttons, I might deal with you.'
'Yellow buttons!' said they: 'let us have a look at them.'
'Go into the garden and dig where I tell you, and you will find the yellow buttons: I dare not go myself.'
So the rogues went: and when they found what these yellow buttons were, they took them all away, and left her plenty of plates and dishes.
Then she set them all about the house for a show: and when Frederick came back, he cried out, 'Kate, what have you been doing?'
'See,' said she, 'I have bought all these with your yellow buttons: but I did not touch them myself; the pedlars went themselves and dug them up.'
'Wife, wife,' said Frederick, 'what a pretty piece of work you have made! those yellow buttons were all my money: how came you to do such a thing?'
'Why,' answered she, 'I did not know there was any harm in it; you should have told me.'
'Well, we will try,' answered he; 'but take some butter and cheese with you, that we may have something to eat by the way.'
'Very well,' said she; and they set out: and as Frederick walked the fastest, he left his wife some way behind.
'It does not matter,' thought she: 'when we turn back, I shall be so much nearer home than he.'
'Ah, see now,' said she, 'how they have bruised and wounded those poor trees; they will never get well.'
So she took pity on them, and made use of the butter to grease them all, so that the wheels might not hurt them so much.
While she was doing this kind office one of her cheeses fell out of the basket, and rolled down the hill.
Then she rolled the other cheese after it; and away it went, nobody knows where, down the hill.
But she said she supposed that they knew the road, and would follow her, and she could not stay there all day waiting for them.
At last she overtook Frederick, who desired her to give him something to eat.
Then she gave him the dry bread.
'Where are the butter and cheese?' said he.
'What a goose you are to do such silly things!' said the husband.
'How can you say so?' said she; 'I am sure you never told me not.'
They ate the dry bread together; and Frederick said, 'Kate, I hope you locked the door safe when you came away.'
'No,' answered she, 'you did not tell me.'
'Then go home, and do it now before we go any farther,' said Frederick, 'and bring with you something to eat.'
'Alas! alas!' said he, 'what a clever wife I have!
Scarcely were they up, than who should come by but the very rogues they were looking for.
Frederick slipped down on the other side, and picked up some stones.
'No,' answered he, 'not now, they will discover us.'
'I can't help that: they must go.'
'Well, then, make haste and throw them down, if you will.'
Then away rattled the nuts down among the boughs and one of the thieves cried, 'Bless me, it is hailing.'
A little while after, Catherine thought the door was still very heavy: so she whispered to Frederick, 'I must throw the vinegar down.'
'Pray don't,' answered he, 'it will discover us.'
'I can't help that,' said she, 'go it must.'
So she poured all the vinegar down; and the thieves said, 'What a heavy dew there is!'
But he begged and prayed her not to do so, for he was sure it would betray them.
So when Frederick and Catherine came down, there they found all their money safe and sound.
'Be quiet, my child,' said the old woman, 'and you shall have it.
Your stepsister has long deserved death; tonight when she is asleep I will come and cut her head off.
Only be careful that you are at the far side of the bed, and push her well to the front.'
It would have been all over with the poor girl if she had not just then been standing in a corner, and heard everything.
When she had gone away, the girl got up and went to her sweetheart, who was called Roland, and knocked at his door.
When daylight comes, and she sees what she has done, we shall be lost.'
'But,' said Roland, 'I counsel you first to take away her magic wand, or we cannot escape if she pursues us.'
Then she hurried away with her lover.
When the old witch got up next morning, she called her daughter, and wanted to give her the apron, but she did not come.
Then the witch cried: 'Where are you?'
'Here, on the stairs, I am sweeping,' answered the first drop of blood.
The old woman went out, but saw no one on the stairs, and cried again: 'Where are you?'
'Here in the kitchen, I am warming myself,' cried the second drop of blood.
She went into the kitchen, but found no one.
Then she cried again: 'Where are you?'
'Ah, here in the bed, I am sleeping,' cried the third drop of blood.
She went into the room to the bed.
Her own child, whose head she had cut off, bathed in her blood.
'That shall not help you,' cried she, 'even if you have got a long way off, you shall still not escape me.'
She put on her many-league boots, in which she covered an hour's walk at every step, and it was not long before she overtook them.
At this the girl and her sweetheart Roland resumed their natural shapes again, and they walked on the whole night until daybreak.
Then the maiden changed herself into a beautiful flower which stood in the midst of a briar hedge, and her sweetheart Roland into a fiddler.
It was not long before the witch came striding up towards them, and said to the musician: 'Dear musician, may I pluck that beautiful flower for myself?'
'Oh, yes,' he replied, 'I will play to you while you do it.'
As they were now set free, Roland said: 'Now I will go to my father and arrange for the wedding.'
Then Roland went away, and the girl stood like a red landmark in the field and waited for her beloved.
But when Roland got home, he fell into the snares of another, who so fascinated him that he forgot the maiden.
From that time forth, strange things happened in the shepherd's house.
He could not conceive how this came to pass, for he never saw a human being in his house, and no one could have concealed himself in it.
He was certainly pleased with this good attendance, but still at last he was so afraid that he went to a wise woman and asked for her advice.
The shepherd did as she bade him, and next morning just as day dawned, he saw the chest open, and the flower come out.
Swiftly he sprang towards it, and threw a white cloth over it.
Nevertheless, she promised not to go away, but to continue keeping house for the shepherd.
When it came to her turn to sing, she stepped back, until at last she was the only one left, and then she could not refuse.
Everything he had forgotten, and which had vanished from his mind, had suddenly come home again to his heart.
Then the faithful maiden held her wedding with her sweetheart Roland, and grief came to an end and joy began.
'Tell me, glass, tell me true!
Of all the ladies in the land, Who is fairest, tell me, who?'
'Thou, queen, art the fairest in all the land.'
But Snowdrop grew more and more beautiful; and when she was seven years old she was as bright as the day, and fairer than the queen herself.
'Thou, queen, art fair, and beauteous to see, But Snowdrop is lovelier far than thee!'
Then poor Snowdrop wandered along through the wood in great fear; and the wild beasts roared about her, but none did her any harm.
In the evening she came to a cottage among the hills, and went in to rest, for her little feet would carry her no further.
By and by in came the masters of the cottage.
Now they were seven little dwarfs, that lived among the mountains, and dug and searched for gold.
They lighted up their seven lamps, and saw at once that all was not right.
The first said, 'Who has been sitting on my stool?'
The second, 'Who has been eating off my plate?'
The third, 'Who has been picking my bread?'
The fourth, 'Who has been meddling with my spoon?'
The fifth, 'Who has been handling my fork?'
The sixth, 'Who has been cutting with my knife?'
The seventh, 'Who has been drinking my wine?'
Then the first looked round and said, 'Who has been lying on my bed?'
And the rest came running to him, and everyone cried out that somebody had been upon his bed.
Then the queen was very much frightened; for she knew that the glass always spoke the truth, and was sure that the servant had betrayed her.
Then she knocked at the door, and cried, 'Fine wares to sell!'
Snowdrop looked out at the window, and said, 'Good day, good woman! what have you to sell?'
'Good wares, fine wares,' said she; 'laces and bobbins of all colours.'
'I will let the old lady in; she seems to be a very good sort of body,' thought Snowdrop, as she ran down and unbolted the door.
'Bless me!' said the old woman, 'how badly your stays are laced!
Let me lace them up with one of my nice new laces.'
'There's an end to all thy beauty,' said the spiteful queen, and went away home.
Then they said, 'The old woman was the queen herself; take care another time, and let no one in when we are away.'
When she reached the dwarfs' cottage, she knocked at the door, and cried, 'Fine wares to sell!'
But Snowdrop said, 'I dare not let anyone in.'
Then the queen said, 'Only look at my beautiful combs!' and gave her the poisoned one.
'There you may lie,' said the queen, and went her way.
'Do as you please,' said the old woman, 'but at any rate take this pretty apple; I will give it you.'
'No,' said Snowdrop, 'I dare not take it.'
'You silly girl!' answered the other, 'what are you afraid of?
Do you think it is poisoned?
Come! do you eat one part, and I will eat the other.'
Now the apple was so made up that one side was good, though the other side was poisoned.
Then Snowdrop was much tempted to taste, for the apple looked so very nice; and when she saw the old woman eat, she could wait no longer.
But she had scarcely put the piece into her mouth, when she fell down dead upon the ground.
'Thou, queen, art the fairest of all the fair.'
And then her wicked heart was glad, and as happy as such a heart could be.
They lifted her up, and combed her hair, and washed her face with wine and water; but all was in vain, for the little girl seemed quite dead.
And the coffin was set among the hills, and one of the dwarfs always sat by it and watched.
At last a prince came and called at the dwarfs' house; and he saw Snowdrop, and read what was written in golden letters.
And the prince said, 'Thou art quite safe with me.'
And Snowdrop consented, and went home with the prince; and everything was got ready with great pomp and splendour for their wedding.
'Thou, lady, art loveliest here, I ween; But lovelier far is the new-made queen.'
When she heard this she started with rage; but her envy and curiosity were so great, that she could not help setting out to see the bride.
There was once upon a time a queen to whom God had given no children.
Every morning she went into the garden and prayed to God in heaven to bestow on her a son or a daughter.
Every morning she went with the child to the garden where the wild beasts were kept, and washed herself there in a clear stream.
It happened once when the child was a little older, that it was lying in her arms and she fell asleep.
Here she was to stay for seven years without meat or drink, and die of hunger.
The cook, however, thought to himself: 'If the child has the power of wishing, and I am here, he might very easily get me into trouble.'
Scarcely were the words out of the boy's mouth, when everything was there that he had wished for.
After a while the cook said to him: 'It is not well for you to be so alone, wish for a pretty girl as a companion.'
Then the king's son wished for one, and she immediately stood before him, and was more beautiful than any painter could have painted her.
The two played together, and loved each other with all their hearts, and the old cook went out hunting like a nobleman.
The thought occurred to him, however, that the king's son might some day wish to be with his father, and thus bring him into great peril.
The cook once more said: 'If you do not do it, it shall cost you your own life.'
Then the wicked wretch came in and said: 'Where are the boy's heart and tongue?'
The girl reached the plate to him, but the king's son threw off the quilt, and said: 'You old sinner, why did you want to kill me?
Now will I pronounce thy sentence.
You shall become a black poodle and have a gold collar round your neck, and shall eat burning coals, till the flames burst forth from your throat.'
The king's son remained there a short while longer, and he thought of his mother, and wondered if she were still alive.
At length he said to the maiden: 'I will go home to my own country; if you will go with me, I will provide for you.'
'Ah,' she replied, 'the way is so long, and what shall I do in a strange land where I am unknown?'
Then he went away to his own country, and the poodle had to run after him.
Then he mounted up and looked inside, and cried: 'Beloved mother, Lady Queen, are you still alive, or are you dead?'
She answered: 'I have just eaten, and am still satisfied,' for she thought the angels were there.
Then he descended again, and went to his father, and caused himself to be announced as a strange huntsman, and asked if he could offer him service.
Then the huntsman promised to procure as much game for him as he could possibly use at the royal table.
So he summoned all the huntsmen together, and bade them go out into the forest with him.
And he went with them and made them form a great circle, open at one end where he stationed himself, and began to wish.
Two hundred deer and more came running inside the circle at once, and the huntsmen shot them.
Now the king felt great joy at this, and commanded that his entire household should eat with him next day, and made a great feast.
When they were all assembled together, he said to the huntsman: 'As you are so clever, you shall sit by me.'
He replied: 'Lord King, your majesty must excuse me, I am a poor huntsman.'
But the king insisted on it, and said: 'You shall sit by me,' until he did it.
Hardly had he formed the wish than the marshal began, and said: 'Your majesty, we live joyously here, but how is the queen living in the tower?
Is she still alive, or has she died?'
But the king replied: 'She let my dear son be torn to pieces by wild beasts; I will not have her named.'
When the king saw him he fell into a passion, and ordered him to be cast into the deepest dungeon.
The king replied: 'Yes, I would like to see her.'
And the king sent two waiting-maids and two attendants into the tower, to fetch the queen and bring her to the royal table.
But when she was led in she ate nothing, and said: 'The gracious and merciful God who has supported me in the tower, will soon set me free.'
The aged king ordered the cook to be torn in four pieces, but grief consumed the king's own heart, and he soon died.
There was once a man who had a daughter who was called Clever Elsie.
And when she had grown up her father said: 'We will get her married.'
'Yes,' said the mother, 'if only someone would come who would have her.'
At length a man came from a distance and wooed her, who was called Hans; but he stipulated that Clever Elsie should be really smart.
'Well,' said Hans, 'if she is not really smart, I won't have her.'
When they were sitting at dinner and had eaten, the mother said: 'Elsie, go into the cellar and fetch some beer.'
Then she sat and wept and screamed with all the strength of her body, over the misfortune which lay before her.
Those upstairs waited for the drink, but Clever Elsie still did not come.
Then the woman said to the servant: 'Just go down into the cellar and see where Elsie is.'
The maid went and found her sitting in front of the barrel, screaming loudly.
'Elsie why do you weep?' asked the maid.
'Ah,' she answered, 'have I not reason to weep?
Then said the maid: 'What a clever Elsie we have!' and sat down beside her and began loudly to weep over the misfortune.
The boy went down, and there sat Clever Elsie and the girl both weeping together.
Then he asked: 'Why are you weeping?'
'Ah,' said Elsie, 'have I not reason to weep?
Then said the boy: 'What a clever Elsie we have!' and sat down by her, and likewise began to howl loudly.
Then said the mother likewise: 'What a clever Elsie we have!' and sat down and wept with them.
When he got down, the five of them were sitting screaming and lamenting quite piteously, each out-doing the other.
'What misfortune has happened then?' asked he.
'Yes, dear Hans, I will do that.'
After Hans had gone away, she cooked herself some good broth and took it into the field with her.
When she came to the field she said to herself: 'What shall I do; shall I cut first, or shall I eat first?
Then she drank her cup of broth and when she was fully satisfied, she once more said: 'What shall I do?
Shall I cut first, or shall I sleep first?
Then she lay down among the corn and fell asleep.
Then Hans hastened home and brought a fowler's net with little bells and hung it round about her, and she still went on sleeping.
Then he ran home, shut the house-door, and sat down in his chair and worked.
Then she was alarmed, and became uncertain whether she really was Clever Elsie or not, and said: 'Is it I, or is it not I?'
She ran to the door of her own house, but it was shut; then she knocked at the window and cried: 'Hans, is Elsie within?'
'Yes,' answered Hans, 'she is within.'
Hereupon she was terrified, and said: 'Ah, heavens!
Then she ran out of the village, and no one has seen her since.
A farmer had a faithful and diligent servant, who had worked hard for him three years, without having been paid any wages.
The farmer was a sad miser, and knew that his man was very simple-hearted; so he took out threepence, and gave him for every year's service a penny.
I can now travel into the wide world, and make myself merry.'
With that he put his money into his purse, and set out, roaming over hill and valley.
As he jogged along over the fields, singing and dancing, a little dwarf met him, and asked him what made him so merry.
'Why, what should make me down-hearted?' said he; 'I am sound in health and rich in purse, what should I care for?
I have saved up my three years' earnings and have it all safe in my pocket.'
'How much may it come to?' said the little man.
'Full threepence,' replied the countryman.
'I wish you would give them to me,' said the other; 'I am very poor.'
The dwarf said he should have his three wishes; so he gave him the bow and fiddle, and went his way.
Our honest friend journeyed on his way too; and if he was merry before, he was now ten times more so.
'Oh, what a pretty bird!' said the miser; 'I would give a great deal of money to have such a one.'
'If that's all,' said the countryman, 'I will soon bring it down.'
Then he took up his bow, and down fell the thrush into the bushes at the foot of the tree.
'Oh, for heaven's sake!' cried the miser, 'Master! master! pray let the fiddle alone.
What have I done to deserve this?'
'Thou hast shaved many a poor soul close enough,' said the other; 'thou art only meeting thy reward': so he played up another tune.
When the countryman saw so much money, he said, 'I will agree to your proposal.'
So he took the purse, put up his fiddle, and travelled on very pleased with his bargain.
Then the judge sent out his officers to bring up the accused wherever they should find him; and he was soon caught and brought up to be tried.
The miser began to tell his tale, and said he had been robbed of his money.
So away he was taken; but as he stood on the steps he said, 'My Lord Judge, grant me one last request.'
'Anything but thy life,' replied the other.
'No,' said he, 'I do not ask my life; only to let me play upon my fiddle for the last time.'
The miser cried out, 'Oh, no! no! for heaven's sake don't listen to him! don't listen to him!'
But the judge said, 'It is only this once, he will soon have done.'
The fact was, he could not refuse the request, on account of the dwarf's third gift.
Then the miser said, 'Bind me fast, bind me fast, for pity's sake.'
Then the countryman stopped his fiddle, and left the miser to take his place at the gallows.
'What does the good-for-nothing want in the parlour?' said they; 'they who would eat bread should first earn it; away with the kitchen-maid!'
Then they took away her fine clothes, and gave her an old grey frock to put on, and laughed at her, and turned her into the kitchen.
There she was forced to do hard work; to rise early before daylight, to bring the water, to make the fire, to cook and to wash.
Besides that, the sisters plagued her in all sorts of ways, and laughed at her.
It happened once that the father was going to the fair, and asked his wife's daughters what he should bring them.
'Fine clothes,' said the first; 'Pearls and diamonds,' cried the second.
'Now, child,' said he to his own daughter, 'what will you have?'
'The first twig, dear father, that brushes against your hat when you turn your face to come homewards,' said she.
'You, Ashputtel!' said she; 'you who have nothing to wear, no clothes at all, and who cannot even dance--you want to go to the ball?
'Hither, hither, through the sky, Turtle-doves and linnets, fly!
Blackbird, thrush, and chaffinch gay, Hither, hither, haste away!
One and all come help me, quick!
Haste ye, haste ye!--pick, pick, pick!'
Long before the end of the hour the work was quite done, and all flew out again at the windows.
Then Ashputtel brought the dish to her mother, overjoyed at the thought that now she should go to the ball.
But the mother said, 'No, no! you slut, you have no clothes, and cannot dance; you shall not go.'
And thus she thought she should at least get rid of her.
So she shook two dishes of peas into the ashes.
Before half an hour's time all was done, and out they flew again.
And then Ashputtel took the dishes to her mother, rejoicing to think that she should now go to the ball.
'Shake, shake, hazel-tree, Gold and silver over me!'
But she slipped away from him, unawares, and ran off towards home; and as the prince followed her, she jumped up into the pigeon-house and shut the door.
Then he waited till her father came home, and told him that the unknown maiden, who had been at the feast, had hid herself in the pigeon-house.
And the bird came and brought a still finer dress than the one she had worn the day before.
In this garden stood a fine large pear-tree full of ripe fruit; and Ashputtel, not knowing where to hide herself, jumped up into it without being seen.
The father thought to himself, 'Can it be Ashputtel?'
So he had an axe brought; and they cut down the tree, but found no one upon it.
Then both the sisters were overjoyed to hear it; for they had beautiful feet, and had no doubt that they could wear the golden slipper.
The eldest went first into the room where the slipper was, and wanted to try it on, and the mother stood by.
But her great toe could not go into it, and the shoe was altogether much too small for her.
So the silly girl cut off her great toe, and thus squeezed on the shoe, and went to the king's son.
Then he took her for his bride, and set her beside him on his horse, and rode away with her homewards.
'Back again! back again! look to the shoe!
The shoe is too small, and not made for you!
Prince! prince! look again for thy bride, For she's not the true one that sits by thy side.'
Then the prince got down and looked at her foot; and he saw, by the blood that streamed from it, what a trick she had played him.
Then she went into the room and got her foot into the shoe, all but the heel, which was too large.
Then he looked down, and saw that the blood streamed so much from the shoe, that her white stockings were quite red.
So he turned his horse and brought her also back again.
'This is not the true bride,' said he to the father; 'have you no other daughters?'
'No,' said he; 'there is only a little dirty Ashputtel here, the child of my first wife; I am sure she cannot be the bride.'
The prince told him to send her.
But the mother said, 'No, no, she is much too dirty; she will not dare to show herself.'
Then she took her clumsy shoe off her left foot, and put on the golden slipper; and it fitted her as if it had been made for her.
And when he drew near and looked at her face he knew her, and said, 'This is the right bride.'
But the mother and both the sisters were frightened, and turned pale with anger as he took Ashputtel on his horse, and rode away with her.
'Home! home! look at the shoe!
Princess! the shoe was made for you!
Prince! prince! take home thy bride, For she is the true one that sits by thy side!'
And when the dove had done its song, it came flying, and perched upon her right shoulder, and so went home with her.
A long time ago there lived a king who was famed for his wisdom through all the land.
Nothing was hidden from him, and it seemed as if news of the most secret things was brought to him through the air.
When he had carefully locked the door, he lifted up the cover, and saw a white snake lying on the dish.
But when he saw it he could not deny himself the pleasure of tasting it, so he cut of a little bit and put it into his mouth.
No sooner had it touched his tongue than he heard a strange whispering of little voices outside his window.
Eating the snake had given him power of understanding the language of animals.
In vain he declared his innocence; he was dismissed with no better answer.
In his trouble and fear he went down into the courtyard and took thought how to help himself out of his trouble.
The servant stood by and listened.
The servant at once seized her by the neck, carried her to the kitchen, and said to the cook: 'Here is a fine duck; pray, kill her.'
'Yes,' said the cook, and weighed her in his hand; 'she has spared no trouble to fatten herself, and has been waiting to be roasted long enough.'
So he cut off her head, and as she was being dressed for the spit, the queen's ring was found inside her.
They leapt with delight, put out their heads, and cried to him: 'We will remember you and repay you for saving us!'
He rode on, and after a while it seemed to him that he heard a voice in the sand at his feet.
He listened, and heard an ant-king complain: 'Why cannot folks, with their clumsy beasts, keep off our bodies?
That stupid horse, with his heavy hoofs, has been treading down my people without mercy!'
So he turned on to a side path and the ant-king cried out to him: 'We will remember you--one good turn deserves another!'
The path led him into a wood, and there he saw two old ravens standing by their nest, and throwing out their young ones.
'Out with you, you idle, good-for-nothing creatures!' cried they; 'we cannot find food for you any longer; you are big enough, and can provide for yourselves.'
But the poor young ravens lay upon the ground, flapping their wings, and crying: 'Oh, what helpless chicks we are!
We must shift for ourselves, and yet we cannot fly!
What can we do, but lie here and starve?'
So the good young fellow alighted and killed his horse with his sword, and gave it to them for food.
Then they came hopping up to it, satisfied their hunger, and cried: 'We will remember you--one good turn deserves another!'
And now he had to use his own legs, and when he had walked a long way, he came to a large city.
All the people grieved for the handsome youth; then they went away, leaving him alone by the sea.
Full of joy he took it to the king and expected that he would grant him the promised reward.
But when the proud princess perceived that he was not her equal in birth, she scorned him, and required him first to perform another task.
Presently the king's daughter herself came down into the garden, and was amazed to see that the young man had done the task she had given him.
After he had wandered through three kingdoms, he came one evening to a wood, and lay down under a tree to sleep.
But he heard a rustling in the branches, and a golden apple fell into his hand.
The youth, full of joy, set out homewards, and took the Golden Apple to the king's beautiful daughter, who had now no more excuses left to make.
There was once upon a time an old goat who had seven little kids, and loved them with all the love of a mother for her children.
One day she wanted to go into the forest and fetch some food.
The wretch often disguises himself, but you will know him at once by his rough voice and his black feet.'
The kids said: 'Dear mother, we will take good care of ourselves; you may go away without any anxiety.'
Then the old one bleated, and went on her way with an easy mind.
But the little kids knew that it was the wolf, by the rough voice.
'We will not open the door,' cried they, 'you are not our mother.
She has a soft, pleasant voice, but your voice is rough; you are the wolf!'
Then the wolf went away to a shopkeeper and bought himself a great lump of chalk, ate this and made his voice soft with it.
Then the wolf ran to a baker and said: 'I have hurt my feet, rub some dough over them for me.'
And when the baker had rubbed his feet over, he ran to the miller and said: 'Strew some white meal over my feet for me.'
The miller thought to himself: 'The wolf wants to deceive someone,' and refused; but the wolf said: 'If you will not do it, I will devour you.'
Then the miller was afraid, and made his paws white for him.
Truly, this is the way of mankind.
The little kids cried: 'First show us your paws that we may know if you are our dear little mother.'
But who should come in but the wolf!
They were terrified and wanted to hide themselves.
But the wolf found them all, and used no great ceremony; one after the other he swallowed them down his throat.
The youngest, who was in the clock-case, was the only one he did not find.
When the wolf had satisfied his appetite he took himself off, laid himself down under a tree in the green meadow outside, and began to sleep.
Soon afterwards the old goat came home again from the forest.
Ah! what a sight she saw there!
The house-door stood wide open.
The table, chairs, and benches were thrown down, the washing-bowl lay broken to pieces, and the quilts and pillows were pulled off the bed.
She sought her children, but they were nowhere to be found.
She called them one after another by name, but no one answered.
At last, when she came to the youngest, a soft voice cried: 'Dear mother, I am in the clock-case.'
She took the kid out, and it told her that the wolf had come and had eaten all the others.
Then you may imagine how she wept over her poor children.
At length in her grief she went out, and the youngest kid ran with her.
When they came to the meadow, there lay the wolf by the tree and snored so loud that the branches shook.
She looked at him on every side and saw that something was moving and struggling in his gorged belly.
'Ah, heavens,' she said, 'is it possible that my poor children whom he has swallowed down for his supper, can be still alive?'
They embraced their dear mother, and jumped like a tailor at his wedding.
The mother, however, said: 'Now go and look for some big stones, and we will fill the wicked beast's stomach with them while he is still asleep.'
But when he began to walk and to move about, the stones in his stomach knocked against each other and rattled.
'What rumbles and tumbles Against my poor bones?
I thought 'twas six kids, But it feels like big stones.'
And when he got to the well and stooped over the water to drink, the heavy stones made him fall in, and he drowned miserably.
When the seven kids saw that, they came running to the spot and cried aloud: 'The wolf is dead!
The wolf is dead!' and danced for joy round about the well with their mother.
However, they all set out on their journey together, and came at last to an ant-hill.
The two elder brothers would have pulled it down, in order to see how the poor ants in their fright would run about and carry off their eggs.
But the little dwarf said, 'Let the poor things enjoy themselves, I will not suffer you to trouble them.'
So on they went, and came to a lake where many many ducks were swimming about.
The two brothers wanted to catch two, and roast them.
But the dwarf said, 'Let the poor things enjoy themselves, you shall not kill them.'
But the dwarf held them back, and said, 'Let the pretty insects enjoy themselves, I cannot let you burn them.'
The second tablet said: 'The key of the princess's bed-chamber must be fished up out of the lake.'
The third task was the hardest.
It was to choose out the youngest and the best of the king's three daughters.
Thus the spell was broken, and all who had been turned into stones awoke, and took their proper forms.
And the dwarf married the youngest and the best of the princesses, and was king after her father's death; but his two brothers married the other two sisters.
Then he cut his leather out, all ready to make up the next day, meaning to rise early in the morning to his work.
His conscience was clear and his heart light amidst all his troubles; so he went peaceably to bed, left all his cares to Heaven, and soon fell asleep.
The good man knew not what to say or think at such an odd thing happening.
He looked at the workmanship; there was not one false stitch in the whole job; all was so neat and true, that it was quite a masterpiece.
Soon in came buyers, who paid him handsomely for his goods, so that he bought leather enough for four pair more.
And on they went, till the job was quite done, and the shoes stood ready for use upon the table.
This was long before daybreak; and then they bustled away as quick as lightning.
The next day the wife said to the shoemaker.
'These little wights have made us rich, and we ought to be thankful to them, and do them a good turn if we can.
The good couple saw them no more; but everything went well with them from that time forward, as long as they lived.
Long, long ago, some two thousand years or so, there lived a rich man with a good and beautiful wife.
They loved each other dearly, but sorrowed much that they had no children.
So greatly did they desire to have one, that the wife prayed for it day and night, but still they remained childless.
In front of the house there was a court, in which grew a juniper-tree.
A month passed, and the snow had all disappeared; then another month went by, and all the earth was green.
A little while later she called her husband, and said to him, weeping.
'If I die, bury me under the juniper-tree.'
Her husband buried her under the juniper-tree, and wept bitterly for her.
This evil thought took possession of her more and more, and made her behave very unkindly to the boy.
One day the little daughter came running to her mother in the store-room, and said, 'Mother, give me an apple.'
'Mother,' said the little daughter again, 'may not brother have one too?'
The mother was angry at this, but she answered, 'Yes, when he comes out of school.'
She threw the apple into the chest and shut it to.
'Mother,' said the boy, 'how dreadful you look!
The thought came to her that she would kill him.
'Come with me,' she said, and she lifted up the lid of the chest; 'take one out for yourself.'
And as he bent over to do so, the evil spirit urged her, and crash! down went the lid, and off went the little boy's head.
Then she was overwhelmed with fear at the thought of what she had done.
'If only I can prevent anyone knowing that I did it,' she thought.
'Go to him again,' said her mother, 'and if he does not answer, give him a box on the ear.'
She was so terrified at this, that she ran crying and screaming to her mother.
'Oh!' she said, 'I have knocked off brother's head,' and then she wept and wept, and nothing would stop her.
And she took the little boy and cut him up, made him into puddings, and put him in the pot.
But Marleen stood looking on, and wept and wept, and her tears fell into the pot, so that there was no need of salt.
Presently the father came home and sat down to his dinner; he asked, 'Where is my son?'
The mother said nothing, but gave him a large dish of black pudding, and Marleen still wept without ceasing.
The father again asked, 'Where is my son?'
'Oh,' answered the wife, 'he is gone into the country to his mother's great uncle; he is going to stay there some time.'
'What has he gone there for, and he never even said goodbye to me!'
'Well, he likes being there, and he told me he should be away quite six weeks; he is well looked after there.'
'I feel very unhappy about it,' said the husband, 'in case it should not be all right, and he ought to have said goodbye to me.'
With this he went on with his dinner, and said, 'Little Marleen, why do you weep?
Brother will soon be back.'
Then he asked his wife for more pudding, and as he ate, he threw the bones under the table.
The goldsmith was in his workshop making a gold chain, when he heard the song of the bird on his roof.
He thought it so beautiful that he got up and ran out, and as he crossed the threshold he lost one of his slippers.
'Bird,' he said, 'how beautifully you sing!
Sing me that song again.'
'Nay,' said the bird, 'I do not sing twice for nothing.
Give that gold chain, and I will sing it you again.'
'Here is the chain, take it,' said the goldsmith.
'Only sing me that again.'
'Bird,' he said, 'how beautifully you sing!'
Then he called through the door to his wife: 'Wife, come out; here is a bird, come and look at it and hear how beautifully it sings.'
'Bird,' said the shoemaker, 'sing me that song again.'
'Nay,' answered the bird, 'I do not sing twice for nothing; you must give me something.'
'Wife,' said the man, 'go into the garret; on the upper shelf you will see a pair of red shoes; bring them to me.'
The wife went in and fetched the shoes.
'There, bird,' said the shoemaker, 'now sing me that song again.'
When he had finished, he flew away.
Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!'
then he looked up and the last one had left off work.
'Bird,' he said, 'what a beautiful song that is you sing!
Let me hear it too; sing it again.'
'Nay,' answered the bird, 'I do not sing twice for nothing; give me that millstone, and I will sing it again.'
'If it belonged to me alone,' said the man, 'you should have it.'
'Yes, yes,' said the others: 'if he will sing again, he can have it.'
The father, the mother, and little Marleen were having their dinner.
'How lighthearted I feel,' said the father, 'so pleased and cheerful.'
'And I,' said the mother, 'I feel so uneasy, as if a heavy thunderstorm were coming.'
But little Marleen sat and wept and wept.
Then the bird came flying towards the house and settled on the roof.
'I do feel so happy,' said the father, 'and how beautifully the sun shines; I feel just as if I were going to see an old friend again.'
then little Marleen laid her head down on her knees and sobbed.
'I must go outside and see the bird nearer,' said the man.
'Ah, do not go!' cried the wife.
'I feel as if the whole house were in flames!'
But the man went out and looked at the bird.
She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!'
With that the bird let fall the gold chain, and it fell just round the man's neck, so that it fitted him exactly.
He went inside, and said, 'See, what a splendid bird that is; he has given me this beautiful gold chain, and looks so beautiful himself.'
But the wife was in such fear and trouble, that she fell on the floor, and her cap fell from her head.
'Ah me!' cried the wife, 'if I were but a thousand feet beneath the earth, that I might not hear that song.'
then the woman fell down again as if dead.
'Well,' said little Marleen, 'I will go out too and see if the bird will give me anything.'
Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!'
And she now felt quite happy and lighthearted; she put on the shoes and danced and jumped about in them.
The wife sprang up, with her hair standing out from her head like flames of fire.
'Then I will go out too,' she said, 'and see if it will lighten my misery, for I feel as if the world were coming to an end.'
But as she crossed the threshold, crash! the bird threw the millstone down on her head, and she was crushed to death.
There were two brothers who were both soldiers; the one was rich and the other poor.
The poor man thought he would try to better himself; so, pulling off his red coat, he became a gardener, and dug his ground well, and sowed turnips.
Then he yoked his oxen, and drew the turnip to the court, and gave it to the king.
'What a wonderful thing!' said the king; 'I have seen many strange things, but such a monster as this I never saw.
Where did you get the seed? or is it only your good luck?
If so, you are a true child of fortune.'
I have a brother, who is rich, and your majesty knows him well, and all the world knows him; but because I am poor, everybody forgets me.'
The king then took pity on him, and said, 'You shall be poor no longer.
I will give you so much that you shall be even richer than your brother.'
Then he gave him gold and lands and flocks, and made him so rich that his brother's fortune could not at all be compared with his.
Meantime he worked and worked away, till he made a hole large enough to put out his head.
When the horseman came up, he proved to be a student, a merry fellow, who was journeying along on his nag, and singing as he went.
As soon as the man in the sack saw him passing under the tree, he cried out, 'Good morning! good morning to thee, my friend!'
The student looked about everywhere; and seeing no one, and not knowing where the voice came from, cried out, 'Who calls me?'
Compared to this seat, all the learning of the schools is as empty air.
A little longer, and I shall know all that man can know, and shall come forth wiser than the wisest of mankind.
Wert thou but once here, my friend, though wouldst feel and own the power of knowledge.
Then the other pretended to give way, and said, 'Thou must let the sack of wisdom descend, by untying yonder cord, and then thou shalt enter.'
So the student let him down, opened the sack, and set him free.
'Now then,' cried he, 'let me ascend quickly.'
As he began to put himself into the sack heels first, 'Wait a while,' said the gardener, 'that is not the way.'
Then he pushed him in head first, tied up the sack, and soon swung up the searcher after wisdom dangling in the air.
'How is it with thee, friend?' said he, 'dost thou not feel that wisdom comes unto thee?
Rest there in peace, till thou art a wiser man than thou wert.'
So saying, he trotted off on the student's nag, and left the poor fellow to gather wisdom till somebody should come and let him down.
The mother of Hans said: 'Whither away, Hans?'
What do you bring that is good?'
'I bring nothing, I want to have something given me.'
Gretel presents Hans with a needle, Hans says: 'Goodbye, Gretel.'
Hans takes the needle, sticks it into a hay-cart, and follows the cart home.
'Took nothing; had something given me.'
'What did Gretel give you?'
'Where is the needle, Hans?'
'That was ill done, Hans.
You should have stuck the needle in your sleeve.'
'Never mind, I'll do better next time.'
I want to have something given to me.'
Gretel presents Hans with a knife.
Hans takes the knife, sticks it in his sleeve, and goes home.
'Took her nothing, she gave me something.'
'Where is the knife, Hans?'
'That's ill done, Hans, you should have put the knife in your pocket.'
'Never mind, will do better next time.'
What good thing do you bring?'
'I bring nothing, I want something given me.'
Gretel presents Hans with a young goat.
Hans takes the goat, ties its legs, and puts it in his pocket.
When he gets home it is suffocated.
'Took nothing, she gave me something.'
'Where is the goat, Hans?'
'That was ill done, Hans, you should have put a rope round the goat's neck.'
Gretel presents Hans with a piece of bacon.
Hans takes the bacon, ties it to a rope, and drags it away behind him.
The dogs come and devour the bacon.
When he gets home, he has the rope in his hand, and there is no longer anything hanging on to it.
'I took her nothing, she gave me something.'
'Gave me a bit of bacon.'
'Where is the bacon, Hans?'
'I tied it to a rope, brought it home, dogs took it.'
'That was ill done, Hans, you should have carried the bacon on your head.'
'Good day, Hans, What good thing do you bring?'
'I bring nothing, but would have something given.'
Gretel presents Hans with a calf.
Hans takes the calf, puts it on his head, and the calf kicks his face.
'I took nothing, but had something given me.'
'Where have you the calf, Hans?'
'I set it on my head and it kicked my face.'
'That was ill done, Hans, you should have led the calf, and put it in the stall.'
Gretel says to Hans: 'I will go with you.'
Hans takes Gretel, ties her to a rope, leads her to the rack, and binds her fast.
Then Hans goes to his mother.
'She gave me nothing, she came with me.'
'Where have you left Gretel?'
'I led her by the rope, tied her to the rack, and scattered some grass for her.'
'That was ill done, Hans, you should have cast friendly eyes on her.'
'Never mind, will do better.'
Hans went into the stable, cut out all the calves' and sheep's eyes, and threw them in Gretel's face.
Then Gretel became angry, tore herself loose and ran away, and was no longer the bride of Hans.
An aged count once lived in Switzerland, who had an only son, but he was stupid, and could learn nothing.
Then said the father: 'Hark you, my son, try as I will I can get nothing into your head.
You must go from hence, I will give you into the care of a celebrated master, who shall see what he can do with you.'
The youth was sent into a strange town, and remained a whole year with the master.
At the end of this time, he came home again, and his father asked: 'Now, my son, what have you learnt?'
'Father, I have learnt what the dogs say when they bark.'
'Lord have mercy on us!' cried the father; 'is that all you have learnt?
I will send you into another town, to another master.'
The youth was taken thither, and stayed a year with this master likewise.
When he came back the father again asked: 'My son, what have you learnt?'
He answered: 'Father, I have learnt what the birds say.'
I will send you to a third master, but if you learn nothing this time also, I will no longer be your father.'
The youth wandered on, and after some time came to a fortress where he begged for a night's lodging.
The whole district was in sorrow and dismay because of them, and yet no one could do anything to stop this.
As he himself would have it so, they gave him some food for the wild animals, and led him down to the tower.
Then all who heard this rejoiced, and the lord of the castle said he would adopt him as a son if he accomplished it successfully.
He went down again, and as he knew what he had to do, he did it thoroughly, and brought a chest full of gold out with him.
The howling of the wild dogs was henceforth heard no more; they had disappeared, and the country was freed from the trouble.
After some time he took it in his head that he would travel to Rome.
On the way he passed by a marsh, in which a number of frogs were sitting croaking.
He listened to them, and when he became aware of what they were saying, he grew very thoughtful and sad.
They at length agreed that the person should be chosen as pope who should be distinguished by some divine and miraculous token.
And just as that was decided on, the young count entered into the church, and suddenly two snow-white doves flew on his shoulders and remained sitting there.
The ecclesiastics recognized therein the token from above, and asked him on the spot if he would be pope.
He was undecided, and knew not if he were worthy of this, but the doves counselled him to do it, and at length he said yes.
'Good day, dear Mr Fox, how are you?
How are you getting on in these hard times?'
At last he said: 'Oh, you wretched beard-cleaner, you piebald fool, you hungry mouse-hunter, what can you be thinking of?
Have you the cheek to ask how I am getting on?
How many arts do you understand?'
'I understand but one,' replied the cat, modestly.
'What art is that?' asked the fox.
'When the hounds are following me, I can spring into a tree and save myself.'
'Is that all?' said the fox.
'I am master of a hundred arts, and have into the bargain a sackful of cunning.
You make me sorry for you; come with me, I will teach you how people get away from the hounds.'
Just then came a hunter with four dogs.
The cat sprang nimbly up a tree, and sat down at the top of it, where the branches and foliage quite concealed her.
'Open your sack, Mr Fox, open your sack,' cried the cat to him, but the dogs had already seized him, and were holding him fast.
'Ah, Mr Fox,' cried the cat.
'You with your hundred arts are left in the lurch!
Had you been able to climb like me, you would not have lost your life.'
'Dear children,' said a poor man to his four sons, 'I have nothing to give you; you must go out into the wide world and try your luck.
Begin by learning some craft or another, and see how you can get on.'
When they had got on some way they came to four crossways, each leading to a different country.
So each brother went his way; and as the eldest was hastening on a man met him, and asked him where he was going, and what he wanted.
'I am going to try my luck in the world, and should like to begin by learning some art or trade,' answered he.
'Then,' said the man, 'go with me, and I will teach you to become the cunningest thief that ever was.'
'No,' said the other, 'that is not an honest calling, and what can one look to earn by it in the end but the gallows?'
The second brother also met a man, who, when he found out what he was setting out upon, asked him what craft he meant to follow.
'I do not know yet,' said he.
'Then come with me, and be a star-gazer.
It is a noble art, for nothing can be hidden from you, when once you understand the stars.'
The youngest brother likewise met a man who asked him what he wished to do.
'Would not you like,' said he, 'to be a tailor?'
'Oh, no!' said the young man; 'sitting cross-legged from morning to night, working backwards and forwards with a needle and goose, will never suit me.'
'Oh!' answered the man, 'that is not my sort of tailoring; come with me, and you will learn quite another kind of craft from that.'
The star-gazer took his glass, looked up, and said, 'Five.'
The huntsman took up his bow, and at one shot struck all the five eggs as his father wished.
Oh, that a time might soon come for you to turn your skill to some account!'
Then the four brothers said to each other, 'Here is a chance for us; let us try what we can do.'
And they agreed to see whether they could not set the princess free.
There they found the princess sitting, as the star-gazer had said, on the rock; and the dragon was lying asleep, with his head upon her lap.
'I dare not shoot at him,' said the huntsman, 'for I should kill the beautiful young lady also.'
'Your seeing her would have been of no use,' said the thief, 'if I had not taken her away from the dragon; therefore she ought to be mine.'
'No, she is mine,' said the huntsman; 'for if I had not killed the dragon, he would, after all, have torn you and the princess into pieces.'
'And if I had not sewn the boat together again,' said the tailor, 'you would all have been drowned, therefore she is mine.'
But to make up for your loss, I will give each of you, as a reward for his skill, half a kingdom.'
So the brothers agreed that this plan would be much better than either quarrelling or marrying a lady who had no mind to have them.
The eldest wished for pearls; the second for jewels; but the third, who was called Lily, said, 'Dear father, bring me a rose.'
So he kissed all three, and bid them goodbye.
On one side the finest flowers were in full bloom, and on the other everything looked dreary and buried in the snow.
This done, they were riding away well pleased, when up sprang a fierce lion, and roared out, 'Whoever has stolen my roses shall be eaten up alive!'
Then the man said, 'I knew not that the garden belonged to you; can nothing save my life?'
Then the servant was greatly frightened, and said, 'It may perhaps be only a cat or a dog.'
But her father began to be very sorrowful, and to weep, saying, 'Alas, my dearest child!
Then he told her all that had happened, and said she should not go, let what would happen.
The next morning she asked the way she was to go, and took leave of her father, and went forth with a bold heart into the wood.
But the lion was an enchanted prince.
By day he and all his court were lions, but in the evening they took their right forms again.
And when Lily came to the castle, he welcomed her so courteously that she agreed to marry him.
The wedding-feast was held, and they lived happily together a long time.
But she told them how happy she was, and stayed till the feast was over, and then went back to the wood.
However, she gave him no rest, and said she would take care no light should fall upon him.
Thus she went roving on through the wide world, and looked neither to the right hand nor to the left, nor took any rest, for seven years.
'Now,' thought she to herself, 'no aid of man can be of use to me.'
So she went to the sun and said, 'Thou shinest everywhere, on the hill's top and the valley's depth--hast thou anywhere seen my white dove?'
'No,' said the sun, 'I have not seen it; but I will give thee a casket--open it when thy hour of need comes.'
'No,' said the moon, 'I cannot help thee but I will give thee an egg--break it when need comes.'
'No,' said the night-wind, 'but I will ask three other winds; perhaps they have seen it.'
Then the night-wind said, 'I will give thee counsel.
I will also give thee this nut,' continued the night-wind.
'Not for gold and silver.' said she, 'but for flesh and blood.'
The princess asked what she meant, and she said, 'Let me speak with the bridegroom this night in his chamber, and I will give thee the dress.'
At last the princess agreed, but she told her chamberlain to give the prince a sleeping draught, that he might not hear or see her.
I have been to the sun, the moon, and the night-wind, to seek thee, and at last I have helped thee to overcome the dragon.
Wilt thou then forget me quite?'
But the prince all the time slept so soundly, that her voice only passed over him, and seemed like the whistling of the wind among the fir-trees.
And they stole away out of the palace by night unawares, and seated themselves on the griffin, who flew back with them over the Red Sea.
There they found their child, now grown up to be comely and fair; and after all their troubles they lived happily together to the end of their days.
Then he opened the door and turned him adrift.
The poor horse was very melancholy, and wandered up and down in the wood, seeking some little shelter from the cold wind and rain.
Presently a fox met him: 'What's the matter, my friend?' said he, 'why do you hang down your head and look so lonely and woe-begone?'
However, the fox bid him be of good cheer, and said, 'I will help you; lie down there, stretch yourself out quite stiff, and pretend to be dead.'
This advice pleased the lion, so he laid himself down quietly for the fox to make him fast to the horse.
But the fox managed to tie his legs together and bound all so hard and fast that with all his strength he could not set himself free.
When the work was done, the fox clapped the horse on the shoulder, and said, 'Jip!
Then up he sprang, and moved off, dragging the lion behind him.
'Here he is, master,' said he, 'I have got the better of him': and when the farmer saw his old servant, his heart relented, and he said.
'Thou shalt stay in thy stable and be well taken care of.'
And so the poor old horse had plenty to eat, and lived--till he died.
Then the soldier did not know how to earn a living, went away greatly troubled, and walked the whole day, until in the evening he entered a forest.
When darkness came on, he saw a light, which he went up to, and came to a house wherein lived a witch.
'Do give me one night's lodging, and a little to eat and drink,' said he to her, 'or I shall starve.'
'Oho!' she answered, 'who gives anything to a run-away soldier?
Yet will I be compassionate, and take you in, if you will do what I wish.'
'What do you wish?' said the soldier.
'That you should dig all round my garden for me, tomorrow.'
The soldier consented, and next day laboured with all his strength, but could not finish it by the evening.
The soldier spent the whole day in doing it, and in the evening the witch proposed that he should stay one night more.
'Tomorrow, you shall only do me a very trifling piece of work.
Next day the old woman took him to the well, and let him down in a basket.
He found the blue light, and made her a signal to draw him up again.
She did draw him up, but when he came near the edge, she stretched down her hand and wanted to take the blue light away from him.
'No,' said he, perceiving her evil intention, 'I will not give you the light until I am standing with both feet upon the ground.'
The witch fell into a passion, let him fall again into the well, and went away.
The poor soldier fell without injury on the moist ground, and the blue light went on burning, but of what use was that to him?
He saw very well that he could not escape death.
He sat for a while very sorrowfully, then suddenly he felt in his pocket and found his tobacco pipe, which was still half full.
'This shall be my last pleasure,' thought he, pulled it out, lit it at the blue light and began to smoke.
When the smoke had circled about the cavern, suddenly a little black dwarf stood before him, and said: 'Lord, what are your commands?'
'What my commands are?' replied the soldier, quite astonished.
'I must do everything you bid me,' said the little man.
'Good,' said the soldier; 'then in the first place help me out of this well.'
The little man took him by the hand, and led him through an underground passage, but he did not forget to take the blue light with him.
On the way the dwarf showed him the treasures which the witch had collected and hidden there, and the soldier took as much gold as he could carry.
When he was above, he said to the little man: 'Now go and bind the old witch, and carry her before the judge.'
In a short time she came by like the wind, riding on a wild tom-cat and screaming frightfully.
Nor was it long before the little man reappeared.
'It is all done,' said he, 'and the witch is already hanging on the gallows.
What further commands has my lord?' inquired the dwarf.
'At this moment, none,' answered the soldier; 'you can return home, only be at hand immediately, if I summon you.'
'Nothing more is needed than that you should light your pipe at the blue light, and I will appear before you at once.'
Thereupon he vanished from his sight.
The soldier returned to the town from which he came.
He went to the best inn, ordered himself handsome clothes, and then bade the landlord furnish him a room as handsome as possible.
'What am I to do?' asked the little man.
'Late at night, when the king's daughter is in bed, bring her here in her sleep, she shall do servant's work for me.'
The manikin said: 'That is an easy thing for me to do, but a very dangerous thing for you, for if it is discovered, you will fare ill.'
When twelve o'clock had struck, the door sprang open, and the manikin carried in the princess.
'Aha! are you there?' cried the soldier, 'get to your work at once!
Fetch the broom and sweep the chamber.'
She, however, did everything he bade her, without opposition, silently and with half-shut eyes.
When the first cock crowed, the manikin carried her back to the royal palace, and laid her in her bed.
Next morning when the princess arose she went to her father, and told him that she had had a very strange dream.
It was only a dream, and yet I am just as tired as if I really had done everything.'
'The dream may have been true,' said the king.
'I will give you a piece of advice.
But unseen by the king, the manikin was standing beside him when he said that, and heard all.
And again the princess was compelled to do servant's work until cock-crow.
Next morning the king had the entire town searched for his daughter's shoe.
In his flight he had forgotten the most valuable things he had, the blue light and the gold, and had only one ducat in his pocket.
And now loaded with chains, he was standing at the window of his dungeon, when he chanced to see one of his comrades passing by.
His comrade ran thither and brought him what he wanted.
As soon as the soldier was alone again, he lighted his pipe and summoned the black manikin.
'Have no fear,' said the latter to his master.
'Go wheresoever they take you, and let them do what they will, only take the blue light with you.'
Next day the soldier was tried, and though he had done nothing wicked, the judge condemned him to death.
When he was led forth to die, he begged a last favour of the king.
'What is it?' asked the king.
'That I may smoke one more pipe on my way.'
'You may smoke three,' answered the king, 'but do not imagine that I will spare your life.'
'Strike down to earth that false judge there, and his constable, and spare not the king who has treated me so ill.'
There was once a queen who had a little daughter, still too young to run alone.
One day the child was very troublesome, and the mother could not quiet it, do what she would.
Scarcely were the words out of her mouth, when the child in her arms was turned into a raven, and flew away from her through the open window.
The bird took its flight to a dark wood and remained there for a long time, and meanwhile the parents could hear nothing of their child.
Long after this, a man was making his way through the wood when he heard a raven calling, and he followed the sound of the voice.
'What am I to do?' he asked.
In the garden behind the house is a large tan-heap, and on that you must stand and watch for me.
The man promised to do all that she wished, but the raven said, 'Alas!
I know even now that you will take something from the woman and be unable to save me.'
The man assured her again that he would on no account touch a thing to eat or drink.
When he came to the house and went inside, the old woman met him, and said, 'Poor man! how tired you are!
Come in and rest and let me give you something to eat and drink.'
'No,' answered the man, 'I will neither eat not drink.'
As it drew towards the appointed hour, he went outside into the garden and mounted the tan-heap to await the raven.
When she entered the garden, there she found him as she had feared, lying on the tan-heap, fast asleep.
She got out of her carriage and went to him; she called him and shook him, but it was all in vain, he still continued sleeping.
The next day at noon, the old woman came to him again with food and drink which he at first refused.
At last, overcome by her persistent entreaties that he would take something, he lifted the glass and drank again.
Towards two o'clock he went into the garden and on to the tan-heap to watch for the raven.
As the raven drove along her four chestnut horses, she said sorrowfully to herself, 'I know he has fallen asleep.'
She went as before to look for him, but he slept, and it was impossible to awaken him.
The following day the old woman said to him, 'What is this?
You are not eating or drinking anything, do you want to kill yourself?'
He answered, 'I may not and will not either eat or drink.'
At two o'clock the raven could be seen approaching, and this time her coachman and everything about her, as well as her horses, were black.
She was sadder than ever as she drove along, and said mournfully, 'I know he has fallen asleep, and will not be able to set me free.'
She found him sleeping heavily, and all her efforts to awaken him were of no avail.
After that she drew a gold ring, on which her name was engraved, off her finger, and put it upon one of his.
She then returned to her carriage and drove to the golden castle of Stromberg.
Then his eyes fell on the things which were lying beside him; he read the letter, and knew from it all that had happened.
Once more the night came on, and worn out he lay down under a bush and fell asleep.
He waited till it was darker and people had begun to light up their houses, and then seeing a little glimmer ahead of him, he went towards it.
He thought to himself, 'If the giant sees me going in, my life will not be worth much.'
However, after a while he summoned up courage and went forward.
When the giant saw him, he called out, 'It is lucky for that you have come, for I have not had anything to eat for a long time.
I can have you now for my supper.'
'If that is so,' replied the giant, 'I will leave you in peace; I only thought of eating you because I had nothing else.'
The giant was pleased with the good cheer, and ate and drank to his heart's content.
When he had finished his supper the man asked him if he could direct him to the castle of Stromberg.
The giant said, 'I will look on my map; on it are marked all the towns, villages, and houses.'
So he fetched his map, and looked for the castle, but could not find it.
Accordingly, when he had finished his supper, they all went up together to his room and looked through his maps, but the castle was not to be found.
Then he fetched other older maps, and they went on looking for the castle until at last they found it, but it was many thousand miles away.
'How shall I be able to get there?' asked the man.
The man journeyed on day and night till he reached the golden castle of Stromberg.
He found it situated, however, on a glass mountain, and looking up from the foot he saw the enchanted maiden drive round her castle and then go inside.
Looking out from his hut one day he saw three robbers fighting and he called out to them, 'God be with you.'
They stopped when they heard the call, but looking round and seeing nobody, they went on again with their fighting, which now became more furious.
'God be with you,' he cried again, and again they paused and looked about, but seeing no one went back to their fighting.
They had been unable to decide whether they would keep together and have the things in common, or whether they would separate.
I must first, however, prove whether all you have told me about your three things is true.'
After this he rode up the glass mountain.
He mounted the steps and entered the room where the maiden was sitting, with a golden goblet full of wine in front of her.
She could not see him for he still wore his cloak.
He took the ring which she had given him off his finger, and threw it into the goblet, so that it rang as it touched the bottom.
'That is my own ring,' she exclaimed, 'and if that is so the man must also be here who is coming to set me free.'
She sought for him about the castle, but could find him nowhere.
Meanwhile he had gone outside again and mounted his horse and thrown off the cloak.
When therefore she came to the castle gate she saw him, and cried aloud for joy.
There was a man who had three sons, the youngest of whom was called Dummling,[*] and was despised, mocked, and sneered at on every occasion.
And this was the little grey man's doing.
After this the second son went into the forest, and his mother gave him, like the eldest, a cake and a bottle of wine.
The little old grey man met him likewise, and asked him for a piece of cake and a drink of wine.
Then Dummling said: 'Father, do let me go and cut wood.'
The father answered: 'Your brothers have hurt themselves with it, leave it alone, you do not understand anything about it.'
But Dummling begged so long that at last he said: 'Just go then, you will get wiser by hurting yourself.'
His mother gave him a cake made with water and baked in the cinders, and with it a bottle of sour beer.
Dummling answered: 'I have only cinder-cake and sour beer; if that pleases you, we will sit down and eat.'
So they sat down, and when Dummling pulled out his cinder-cake, it was a fine sweet cake, and the sour beer had become good wine.
There stands an old tree, cut it down, and you will find something at the roots.'
Then the little man took leave of him.
Dummling went and cut down the tree, and when it fell there was a goose sitting in the roots with feathers of pure gold.
He lifted her up, and taking her with him, went to an inn where he thought he would stay the night.
The second came soon afterwards, thinking only of how she might get a feather for herself, but she had scarcely touched her sister than she was held fast.
At last the third also came with the like intent, and the others screamed out: 'Keep away; for goodness' sake keep away!'
But she did not understand why she was to keep away.
So they had to spend the night with the goose.
The next morning Dummling took the goose under his arm and set out, without troubling himself about the three girls who were hanging on to it.
They were obliged to run after him continually, now left, now right, wherever his legs took him.
Before long the sexton came by and saw his master, the parson, running behind three girls.
He was astonished at this and called out: 'Hi! your reverence, whither away so quickly?
Do not forget that we have a christening today!' and running after him he took him by the sleeve, but was also held fast to it.
But they had scarcely touched the sexton when they were held fast, and now there were seven of them running behind Dummling and the goose.
Soon afterwards he came to a city, where a king ruled who had a daughter who was so serious that no one could make her laugh.
So he had put forth a decree that whosoever should be able to make her laugh should marry her.
'There, I can help you,' said Dummling, 'just come with me and you shall be satisfied.'
My stomach remains empty, and I must tie myself up if I am not to die of hunger.'
At this Dummling was glad, and said: 'Get up and come with me; you shall eat yourself full.'
The man from the forest stood before it, began to eat, and by the end of one day the whole mountain had vanished.
'As soon as you come sailing back in it,' said he, 'you shall have my daughter for wife.'
Dummling went straight into the forest, and there sat the little grey man to whom he had given his cake.
The wedding was celebrated, and after the king's death, Dummling inherited his kingdom and lived for a long time contentedly with his wife.
Long before you or I were born, there reigned, in a country a great way off, a king who had three sons.
This king once fell very ill--so ill that nobody thought he could live.
They told him that their father was very ill, and that they were afraid nothing could save him.
'I know what would,' said the little old man; 'it is the Water of Life.
If he could have a draught of it he would be well again; but it is very hard to get.'
'I had rather die than place you in such great danger as you must meet with in your journey.'
'What is that to thee, you ugly imp?' said the prince haughtily, and rode on.
For he thought to himself, 'My brother is surely dead, and the kingdom will fall to me if I find the water.'
The king was at first very unwilling to let him go, but at last yielded to his wish.
'Mind your own affairs, busybody!' said the prince scornfully, and rode on.
Thus it is with proud silly people, who think themselves above everyone else, and are too proud to ask or take advice.
So he set out, and the dwarf met him too at the same spot in the valley, among the mountains, and said, 'Prince, whither so fast?'
And the prince said, 'I am going in search of the Water of Life, because my father is ill, and like to die: can you help me?
Pray be kind, and aid me if you can!'
'Do you know where it is to be found?' asked the dwarf.
'No,' said the prince, 'I do not.
Pray tell me if you know.'
'Then as you have spoken to me kindly, and are wise enough to seek for advice, I will tell you how and where to go.
Around it he saw several knights sitting in a trance; then he pulled off their rings and put them on his own fingers.
In another room he saw on a table a sword and a loaf of bread, which he also took.
So he laid himself down, and sleep fell upon him unawares, so that he did not wake up till the clock was striking a quarter to twelve.
'I have shut them up by a charm between two mountains,' said the dwarf, 'because they were proud and ill-behaved, and scorned to ask advice.'
The prince begged so hard for his brothers, that the dwarf at last set them free, though unwillingly, saying, 'Beware of them, for they have bad hearts.'
But the prince gave the king of the land the bread, and all his kingdom ate of it.
And he lent the king the wonderful sword, and he slew the enemy's army with it; and thus the kingdom was once more in peace and plenty.
In the same manner he befriended two other countries through which they passed on their way.
Then they waited till he was fast asleep, and poured the Water of Life out of the cup, and took it for themselves, giving him bitter sea-water instead.
When they came to their journey's end, the youngest son brought his cup to the sick king, that he might drink and be healed.
Then they went to their brother, and laughed at him, and said, 'Well, brother, you found the Water of Life, did you?
You have had the trouble and we shall have the reward.
Pray, with all your cleverness, why did not you manage to keep your eyes open?
Next year one of us will take away your beautiful princess, if you do not take care.
'I cannot and dare not tell you,' said he.
But the prince begged very hard, and said, 'Only tell me what it is, and do not think I shall be angry, for I will forgive you.'
'Alas!' said the huntsman; 'the king has ordered me to shoot you.'
'With all my heart,' said the huntsman; 'I am sure I shall be glad to save you, for I could not have shot you.'
Then he took the prince's coat, and gave him the shabby one, and went away through the wood.
Then he too turned aside and rode on the left side of it.
Then he told him everything; how his brothers had cheated and robbed him, and yet that he had borne all those wrongs for the love of his father.
And now the old king gathered together his court, and asked all his kingdom to come and celebrate the wedding of his son and the princess.
And the wedding was held, and the merry bells run.
And all the good people they danced and they sung, And feasted and frolick'd I can't tell how long.
There was once a king's son who had a bride whom he loved very much.
Then he said to his beloved: 'I must now go and leave you, I give you a ring as a remembrance of me.
When I am king, I will return and fetch you.'
So he rode away, and when he reached his father, the latter was dangerously ill, and near his death.
His first betrothed heard of this, and fretted so much about his faithfulness that she nearly died.
Then her father said to her: 'Dearest child, why are you so sad?
You shall have whatsoever you will.'
She thought for a moment and said: 'Dear father, I wish for eleven girls exactly like myself in face, figure, and size.'
Thereupon she took her leave of her father, and rode away with them, and rode to the court of her former betrothed, whom she loved so dearly.
Then she asked if he required any huntsmen, and if he would take all of them into his service.
The king, however, had a lion which was a wondrous animal, for he knew all concealed and secret things.
It came to pass that one evening he said to the king: 'You think you have twelve huntsmen?'
'Yes,' said the king, 'they are twelve huntsmen.'
The lion continued: 'You are mistaken, they are twelve girls.'
The king said: 'That cannot be true!
How will you prove that to me?'
'Oh, just let some peas be strewn in the ante-chamber,' answered the lion, 'and then you will soon see.
The king was well pleased with the counsel, and caused the peas to be strewn.
Then the king's daughter thanked him, and said to her maidens: 'Show some strength, and step firmly on the peas.'
Then they went away again, and the king said to the lion: 'You have lied to me, they walk just like men.'
The lion said: 'They have been informed that they were going to be put to the test, and have assumed some strength.
Just let twelve spinning-wheels be brought into the ante-chamber, and they will go to them and be pleased with them, and that is what no man would do.'
The king liked the advice, and had the spinning-wheels placed in the ante-chamber.
But the servant, who was well disposed to the huntsmen, went to them, and disclosed the project.
So when they were alone the king's daughter said to her eleven girls: 'Show some constraint, and do not look round at the spinning-wheels.'
And next morning when the king had his twelve huntsmen summoned, they went through the ante-chamber, and never once looked at the spinning-wheels.
Then the king again said to the lion: 'You have deceived me, they are men, for they have not looked at the spinning-wheels.'
The lion replied: 'They have restrained themselves.'
The king, however, would no longer believe the lion.
The twelve huntsmen always followed the king to the chase, and his liking for them continually increased.
Now it came to pass that once when they were out hunting, news came that the king's bride was approaching.
When the true bride heard that, it hurt her so much that her heart was almost broken, and she fell fainting to the ground.
The king thought something had happened to his dear huntsman, ran up to him, wanted to help him, and drew his glove off.
Then he saw the ring which he had given to his first bride, and when he looked in her face he recognized her.
Thereupon the wedding was celebrated, and the lion was again taken into favour, because, after all, he had told the truth.
There was once a merchant who had only one child, a son, that was very young, and barely able to run alone.
'Prithee, friend, why so sorrowful?' said he to the merchant; 'what is it you take so deeply to heart?'
'If you would do me any good I would willingly tell you,' said the merchant.
'Who knows but I may?' said the little man: 'tell me what ails you, and perhaps you will find I may be of some use.'
At the sight of this he was overjoyed, and forgetting all about his son, went into trade again, and became a richer merchant than before.
Then Heinel said, 'Father, give yourself very little trouble about that; I shall be too much for the little man.'
At last the boy said to him.
'Have you anything to say to us, my friend, or what do you want?'
'Have you brought me what you said you would?' said the dwarf to the merchant.
The old man held his tongue, but Heinel said again, 'What do you want here?'
The dwarf said, 'I come to talk with your father, not with you.'
'You have cheated and taken in my father,' said the son; 'pray give him up his bond at once.'
'You must have my consent to that first,' said Heinel, 'so please to step in here, and let us talk it over.'
The old man grinned, and showed his teeth, as if he should have been very glad to get into the circle if he could.
Then at last, after a long talk, they came to terms.
The boat, however, did not sink, for the good fairy took care of her friend, and soon raised the boat up again, and it went safely on.
The young man sat safe within, till at length it ran ashore upon an unknown land.
As he jumped upon the shore he saw before him a beautiful castle but empty and dreary within, for it was enchanted.
'Here,' said he to himself, 'must I find the prize the good fairy told me of.'
So he once more searched the whole palace through, till at last he found a white snake, lying coiled up on a cushion in one of the chambers.
Now the white snake was an enchanted princess; and she was very glad to see him, and said, 'Are you at last come to set me free?
Twelve long years have I waited here for the fairy to bring you hither as she promised, for you alone can save me.
This night twelve men will come: their faces will be black, and they will be dressed in chain armour.
Joy and gladness burst forth throughout the castle, the wedding was celebrated, and he was crowned king of the Golden Mountain.
They lived together very happily, and the queen had a son.
And thus eight years had passed over their heads, when the king thought of his father; and he began to long to see him once again.
But the queen was against his going, and said, 'I know well that misfortunes will come upon us if you go.'
However, he gave her no rest till she agreed.
Then he said he would do what she asked, and put the ring on his finger, and wished himself near the town where his father lived.
Heinel found himself at the gates in a moment; but the guards would not let him go in, because he was so strangely clad.
So he went up to a neighbouring hill, where a shepherd dwelt, and borrowed his old frock, and thus passed unknown into the town.
The king, however, still vowed that he was his son, and said, 'Is there no mark by which you would know me if I am really your son?'
'Yes,' said his mother, 'our Heinel had a mark like a raspberry on his right arm.'
Then he showed them the mark, and they knew that what he had said was true.
He next told them how he was king of the Golden Mountain, and was married to a princess, and had a son seven years old.
But the merchant said, 'that can never be true; he must be a fine king truly who travels about in a shepherd's frock!'
At this the son was vexed; and forgetting his word, turned his ring, and wished for his queen and son.
In an instant they stood before him; but the queen wept, and said he had broken his word, and bad luck would follow.
One day he took her to walk with him out of the town, and showed her the spot where the boat was set adrift upon the wide waters.
Then he sat himself down, and said, 'I am very much tired; sit by me, I will rest my head in your lap, and sleep a while.'
And when he awoke he found himself alone, and saw that the ring was gone from his finger.
Heinel said they must first let him try these wonderful things, then he might know how to set a value upon them.
Then they gave him the cloak, and he wished himself a fly, and in a moment he was a fly.
'The cloak is very well,' said he: 'now give me the sword.'
'No,' said they; 'not unless you undertake not to say, "Heads off!" for if you do we are all dead men.'
So they gave it him, charging him to try it on a tree.
So the giants were left behind with no goods to share or quarrel about.
As Heinel came near his castle he heard the sound of merry music; and the people around told him that his queen was about to marry another husband.
Then he threw his cloak around him, and passed through the castle hall, and placed himself by the side of the queen, where no one saw him.
Upon this, fear and remorse came over her, and she went into her chamber alone, and sat there weeping; and he followed her there.
'Alas!' said she to herself, 'was I not once set free?
Why then does this enchantment still seem to bind me?'
'False and fickle one!' said he.
'One indeed came who set thee free, and he is now near thee again; but how have you used him?
Ought he to have had such treatment from thee?'
Then he went out and sent away the company, and said the wedding was at an end, for that he was come back to the kingdom.
But the princes, peers, and great men mocked at him.
However, he would enter into no parley with them, but only asked them if they would go in peace or not.
Then they turned upon him and tried to seize him; but he drew his sword.
'Heads Off!' cried he; and with the word the traitors' heads fell before him, and Heinel was once more king of the Golden Mountain.
So he remained standing a while, and at length inquired if he too could not be a doctor.
'Oh, yes,' said the doctor, 'that is soon managed.'
'What must I do?' asked the peasant.
The peasant did everything that he had been told to do.
When he had doctored people awhile, but not long, a rich and great lord had some money stolen.
Then he was told about Doctor Knowall who lived in such and such a village, and must know what had become of the money.
So the lord had the horses harnessed to his carriage, drove out to the village, and asked Crabb if he were Doctor Knowall.
Then he was to go with him and bring back the stolen money.
'Oh, yes, but Grete, my wife, must go too.'
The lord was willing, and let both of them have a seat in the carriage, and they all drove away together.
When they came to the nobleman's castle, the table was spread, and Crabb was told to sit down and eat.
'Yes, but my wife, Grete, too,' said he, and he seated himself with her at the table.
The second did not want to go in at all, but was forced.
So when he went in with his dish, the peasant nudged his wife, and said: 'Grete, that is the second.'
This servant was equally alarmed, and he got out as fast as he could.
The third fared no better, for the peasant again said: 'Grete, that is the third.'
The doctor looked at the dish, had no idea what to say, and cried: 'Ah, poor Crabb.'
When the lord heard that, he cried: 'There! he knows it; he must also know who has the money!'
On this the servants looked terribly uneasy, and made a sign to the doctor that they wished him to step outside for a moment.
They led him to the spot where the money was concealed.
The fifth servant, however, crept into the stove to hear if the doctor knew still more.
But the doctor sat still and opened his A B C book, turned the pages backwards and forwards, and looked for the cock.
As he could not find it immediately he said: 'I know you are there, so you had better come out!'
Then the fellow in the stove thought that the doctor meant him, and full of terror, sprang out, crying: 'That man knows everything!'
There was once a man who had seven sons, and last of all one daughter.
So the father sent one of his sons in haste to the spring to get some water, but the other six ran with him.
In the meantime the father was uneasy, and could not tell what made the young men stay so long.
'Yes,' said they, 'she is beautiful indeed, but still 'tis a pity that her brothers should have been lost for her sake.'
Then she was much grieved, and went to her father and mother, and asked if she had any brothers, and what had become of them.
As she went in, a little dwarf came up to her, and said, 'What are you seeking for?'
'I seek for my brothers, the seven ravens,' answered she.
Then the dwarf said, 'My masters are not at home; but if you will wait till they come, pray step in.'
On a sudden she heard a fluttering and croaking in the air, and the dwarf said, 'Here come my masters.'
When they came in, they wanted to eat and drink, and looked for their little plates and glasses.
'Who has eaten from my little plate?
And who has been drinking out of my little glass?'
Caw! well I ween Mortal lips have this way been.'
He stretched himself out under the bench, did not move a limb, and behaved as if he were stone dead.
Mrs Fox went up to her room, shut herself in, and her maid, Miss Cat, sat by the fire, and did the cooking.
When it became known that the old fox was dead, suitors presented themselves.
The maid heard someone standing at the house-door, knocking.
'What may you be about, Miss Cat?
Do you sleep or do you wake?'
'I am not sleeping, I am waking, Would you know what I am making?
I am boiling warm beer with butter, Will you be my guest for supper?'
'No, thank you, miss,' said the fox, 'what is Mrs Fox doing?'
'She is sitting in her room, Moaning in her gloom, Weeping her little eyes quite red, Because old Mr Fox is dead.'
'Do just tell her, miss, that a young fox is here, who would like to woo her.'
The cat goes up the stairs trip, trap, The door she knocks at tap, tap, tap, 'Mistress Fox, are you inside?'
'Oh, yes, my little cat,' she cried.
'A wooer he stands at the door out there.'
'What does he look like, my dear?'
'Has he nine as beautiful tails as the late Mr Fox?'
'Oh, no,' answered the cat, 'he has only one.'
'Then I will not have him.'
Miss Cat went downstairs and sent the wooer away.
Soon afterwards there was another knock, and another fox was at the door who wished to woo Mrs Fox.
He had two tails, but he did not fare better than the first.
'Now open the gates and doors all wide, And carry old Mr Fox outside.'
'Good day, Mrs Cat of Kehrewit, How comes it that alone you sit?
What are you making good?'
'In milk I'm breaking bread so sweet, Will you be my guest, and eat?'
'No, thank you, Mrs Cat,' answered the wolf.
'Is Mrs Fox not at home?'
'She sits upstairs in her room, Bewailing her sorrowful doom, Bewailing her trouble so sore, For old Mr Fox is no more.'
'If she's in want of a husband now, Then will it please her to step below?'
The cat runs quickly up the stair, And lets her tail fly here and there, Until she comes to the parlour door.
With her five gold rings at the door she knocks: 'Are you within, good Mistress Fox?
If you're in want of a husband now, Then will it please you to step below?
Mrs Fox asked: 'Has the gentleman red stockings on, and has he a pointed mouth?'
'Then he won't do for me.'
When the wolf was gone, came a dog, a stag, a hare, a bear, a lion, and all the beasts of the forest, one after the other.
But one of the good qualities which old Mr Fox had possessed, was always lacking, and the cat had continually to send the suitors away.
At length came a young fox.
Then Mrs Fox said: 'Has the gentleman red stockings on, and has a little pointed mouth?'
'Yes,' said the cat, 'he has.'
'Then let him come upstairs,' said Mrs Fox, and ordered the servant to prepare the wedding feast.
'Sweep me the room as clean as you can, Up with the window, fling out my old man!
For many a fine fat mouse he brought, Yet of his wife he never thought, But ate up every one he caught.'
Then the wedding was solemnized with young Mr Fox, and there was much rejoicing and dancing; and if they have not left off, they are dancing still.
The huntsman took pity on her, and put his hand in his pocket and gave her what he had.
Cut open the dead bird, take out its heart and keep it, and you will find a piece of gold under your pillow every morning when you rise.
It is the bird's heart that will bring you this good luck.'
The huntsman thanked her, and thought to himself, 'If all this does happen, it will be a fine thing for me.'
Off went the flock chattering away; but one fell down dead, and the cloak with it.
Then the huntsman did as the old woman told him, cut open the bird, took out the heart, and carried the cloak home with him.
He heaped up a great deal of gold, and at last thought to himself, 'Of what use is this gold to me whilst I am at home?
I will go out into the world and look about me.'
Then he took leave of his friends, and hung his bag and bow about his neck, and went his way.
He has a bird's heart that brings a piece of gold under his pillow every morning.'
Then the old woman said, 'Now is the time for getting the bird's heart.'
'Well,' said the old witch, 'we have got the bird's heart, but not the wishing-cloak yet, and that we must also get.'
'Let us leave him that,' said the young lady; 'he has already lost his wealth.'
Then the witch was very angry, and said, 'Such a cloak is a very rare and wonderful thing, and I must and will have it.'
The diamonds glittered so on all sides that they were delighted with the sight and picked up the finest.
When the giants came up to him, the first pushed him with his foot, and said, 'What worm is this that lies here curled up?'
'Tread upon him and kill him,' said the second.
'It's not worth the trouble,' said the third; 'let him live, he'll go climbing higher up the mountain, and some cloud will come rolling and carry him away.'
At last he thought to himself, 'I can eat salad, it will refresh and strengthen me.'
So he went away to try and find the castle of his friends; and after wandering about a few days he luckily found it.
'Countryman,' said the witch, 'who are you? and what is your business?'
'I am,' said he, 'a messenger sent by the king to find the finest salad that grows under the sun.
When the witch and the young lady heard of his beautiful salad, they longed to taste it, and said, 'Dear countryman, let us just taste it.'
'To be sure,' answered he; 'I have two heads of it with me, and will give you one'; so he opened his bag and gave them the bad.
Then he thought something must have happened, and said, 'I will go into the kitchen and see.'
And as he went he saw two asses in the court running about, and the salad lying on the ground.
'All right!' said he; 'those two have had their share.'
So she ate of it, and like the others ran off into the court braying away.
Then the huntsman washed his face and went into the court that they might know him.
'What's the matter?' said the miller.
'With all my heart,' said the miller; 'but how shall I treat them?'
After this he went back to the castle, where he found everything he wanted.
Your wishing-cloak hangs up in the closet, and as for the bird's heart, I will give it you too.'
But he said, 'Keep it, it will be just the same thing, for I mean to make you my wife.'
So they were married, and lived together very happily till they died.
Or when stories were told by the fire at night which made the flesh creep, the listeners sometimes said: 'Oh, it makes us shudder!'
The younger sat in a corner and listened with the rest of them, and could not imagine what they could mean.
'They are always saying: "It makes me shudder, it makes me shudder!"
It does not make me shudder,' thought he.
'That, too, must be an art of which I understand nothing!'
Look how your brother works, but you do not even earn your salt.'
'Well, father,' he replied, 'I am quite willing to learn something--indeed, if it could but be managed, I should like to learn how to shudder.
I don't understand that at all yet.'
The elder brother smiled when he heard that, and thought to himself: 'Goodness, what a blockhead that brother of mine is!
He will never be good for anything as long as he lives!
He who wants to be a sickle must bend himself betimes.'
The father sighed, and answered him: 'You shall soon learn what it is to shudder, but you will not earn your bread by that.'
'Just think,' said he, 'when I asked him how he was going to earn his bread, he actually wanted to learn to shudder.'
'If that be all,' replied the sexton, 'he can learn that with me.
Send him to me, and I will soon polish him.'
The father was glad to do it, for he thought: 'It will train the boy a little.'
The sexton therefore took him into his house, and he had to ring the church bell.
After a day or two, the sexton awoke him at midnight, and bade him arise and go up into the church tower and ring the bell.
'Who is there?' cried he, but the figure made no reply, and did not move or stir.
'Give an answer,' cried the boy, 'or take yourself off, you have no business here at night.'
The sexton, however, remained standing motionless that the boy might think he was a ghost.
The boy cried a second time: 'What do you want here?--speak if you are an honest fellow, or I will throw you down the steps!'
The sexton thought: 'He can't mean to be as bad as his words,' uttered no sound and stood as if he were made of stone.
Thereupon he rang the bell, went home, and without saying a word went to bed, and fell asleep.
The sexton's wife waited a long time for her husband, but he did not come back.
At length she became uneasy, and wakened the boy, and asked: 'Do you know where my husband is?
He climbed up the tower before you did.'
Just go there and you will see if it was he.
I should be sorry if it were.'
The woman ran away and found her husband, who was lying moaning in the corner, and had broken his leg.
She carried him down, and then with loud screams she hastened to the boy's father, 'Your boy,' cried she, 'has been the cause of a great misfortune!
He has thrown my husband down the steps so that he broke his leg.
Take the good-for-nothing fellow out of our house.'
The father was terrified, and ran thither and scolded the boy.
'What wicked tricks are these?' said he.
'The devil must have put them into your head.'
'Father,' he replied, 'do listen to me.
He was standing there by night like one intent on doing evil.
I did not know who it was, and I entreated him three times either to speak or to go away.'
'Ah,' said the father, 'I have nothing but unhappiness with you.
'Yes, father, right willingly, wait only until it is day.
Then will I go forth and learn how to shudder, and then I shall, at any rate, understand one art which will support me.'
'Learn what you will,' spoke the father, 'it is all the same to me.
Here are fifty talers for you.
'Yes, father, it shall be as you will.
If you desire nothing more than that, I can easily keep it in mind.'
Sit down beneath it, and wait till night comes, and you will soon learn how to shudder.'
Just come back to me early in the morning.'
Then the youth went to the gallows, sat down beneath it, and waited till evening came.
And as he felt pity for them, he raised the ladder, and climbed up, unbound one of them after the other, and brought down all seven.
Then he stoked the fire, blew it, and set them all round it to warm themselves.
But they sat there and did not stir, and the fire caught their clothes.
So he said: 'Take care, or I will hang you up again.'
The dead men, however, did not hear, but were quite silent, and let their rags go on burning.
'No,' answered he, 'how should I know?
Those fellows up there did not open their mouths, and were so stupid that they let the few old rags which they had on their bodies get burnt.'
Then the man saw that he would not get the fifty talers that day, and went away saying: 'Such a youth has never come my way before.'
The youth likewise went his way, and once more began to mutter to himself: 'Ah, if I could but shudder!
Ah, if I could but shudder!'
A waggoner who was striding behind him heard this and asked: 'Who are you?'
'I don't know,' answered the youth.
Then the waggoner asked: 'From whence do you come?'
'That I may not tell you.'
'What is it that you are always muttering between your teeth?'
'Ah,' replied the youth, 'I do so wish I could shudder, but no one can teach me how.'
'Enough of your foolish chatter,' said the waggoner.
'Come, go with me, I will see about a place for you.'
The youth went with the waggoner, and in the evening they arrived at an inn where they wished to pass the night.
Then at the entrance of the parlour the youth again said quite loudly: 'If I could but shudder!
The host who heard this, laughed and said: 'If that is your desire, there ought to be a good opportunity for you here.'
But the youth said: 'However difficult it may be, I will learn it.
For this purpose indeed have I journeyed forth.'
The king had promised that he who would venture should have his daughter to wife, and she was the most beautiful maiden the sun shone on.
Likewise in the castle lay great treasures, which were guarded by evil spirits, and these treasures would then be freed, and would make a poor man rich enough.
Already many men had gone into the castle, but as yet none had come out again.
Then the youth went next morning to the king, and said: 'If it be allowed, I will willingly watch three nights in the haunted castle.'
Then he answered: 'Then I ask for a fire, a turning lathe, and a cutting-board with the knife.'
The king had these things carried into the castle for him during the day.
'Ah, if I could but shudder!' said he, 'but I shall not learn it here either.'
Towards midnight he was about to poke his fire, and as he was blowing it, something cried suddenly from one corner: 'Au, miau! how cold we are!'
'You fools!' cried he, 'what are you crying about?
If you are cold, come and take a seat by the fire and warm yourselves.'
After a short time, when they had warmed themselves, they said: 'Comrade, shall we have a game of cards?'
'Why not?' he replied, 'but just show me your paws.'
Then they stretched out their claws.
'Oh,' said he, 'what long nails you have!
Wait, I must first cut them for you.'
Thereupon he seized them by the throats, put them on the cutting-board and screwed their feet fast.
'I have looked at your fingers,' said he, 'and my fancy for card-playing has gone,' and he struck them dead and threw them out into the water.
Some of them ran away, the others he killed, and threw out into the fish-pond.
When he came back he fanned the embers of his fire again and warmed himself.
And as he thus sat, his eyes would keep open no longer, and he felt a desire to sleep.
Then he looked round and saw a great bed in the corner.
'That is the very thing for me,' said he, and got into it.
When he was just going to shut his eyes, however, the bed began to move of its own accord, and went over the whole of the castle.
'That's right,' said he, 'but go faster.'
In the morning the king came, and when he saw him lying there on the ground, he thought the evil spirits had killed him and he was dead.
Then said he: 'After all it is a pity,--for so handsome a man.'
The youth heard it, got up, and said: 'It has not come to that yet.'
Then the king was astonished, but very glad, and asked how he had fared.
'Very well indeed,' answered he; 'one night is past, the two others will pass likewise.'
Then he went to the innkeeper, who opened his eyes very wide, and said: 'I never expected to see you alive again!
Have you learnt how to shudder yet?'
'No,' said he, 'it is all in vain.
If someone would but tell me!'
The second night he again went up into the old castle, sat down by the fire, and once more began his old song: 'If I could but shudder!'
When midnight came, an uproar and noise of tumbling about was heard; at first it was low, but it grew louder and louder.
Then it was quiet for a while, and at length with a loud scream, half a man came down the chimney and fell before him.
'Hullo!' cried he, 'another half belongs to this.
Then the uproar began again, there was a roaring and howling, and the other half fell down likewise.
'Wait,' said he, 'I will just stoke up the fire a little for you.'
When he had done that and looked round again, the two pieces were joined together, and a hideous man was sitting in his place.
'That is no part of our bargain,' said the youth, 'the bench is mine.'
The youth also wanted to play and said: 'Listen you, can I join you?'
'Yes, if you have any money.'
'Money enough,' replied he, 'but your balls are not quite round.'
Then he took the skulls and put them in the lathe and turned them till they were round.
'There, now they will roll better!' said he.
'Hurrah! now we'll have fun!'
He played with them and lost some of his money, but when it struck twelve, everything vanished from his sight.
He lay down and quietly fell asleep.
Next morning the king came to inquire after him.
'How has it fared with you this time?' asked he.
'I have been playing at nine-pins,' he answered, 'and have lost a couple of farthings.'
'Have you not shuddered then?'
'What?' said he, 'I have had a wonderful time!
If I did but know what it was to shudder!'
The third night he sat down again on his bench and said quite sadly: 'If I could but shudder.'
When it grew late, six tall men came in and brought a coffin.
They placed the coffin on the ground, but he went to it and took the lid off, and a dead man lay therein.
He felt his face, but it was cold as ice.
Then he took him out, and sat down by the fire and laid him on his breast and rubbed his arms that the blood might circulate again.
After a short time the dead man became warm too, and began to move.
Then said the youth, 'See, little cousin, have I not warmed you?'
The dead man, however, got up and cried: 'Now will I strangle you.'
'What!' said he, 'is that the way you thank me?
You shall at once go into your coffin again,' and he took him up, threw him into it, and shut the lid.
Then came the six men and carried him away again.
'I cannot manage to shudder,' said he.
'I shall never learn it here as long as I live.'
Then a man entered who was taller than all others, and looked terrible.
He was old, however, and had a long white beard.
'You wretch,' cried he, 'you shall soon learn what it is to shudder, for you shall die.'
'Not so fast,' replied the youth.
'If I am to die, I shall have to have a say in it.'
'I will soon seize you,' said the fiend.
'Softly, softly, do not talk so big.
I am as strong as you are, and perhaps even stronger.'
'We shall see,' said the old man.
'If you are stronger, I will let you go--come, we will try.'
Then he led him by dark passages to a smith's forge, took an axe, and with one blow struck an anvil into the ground.
'I can do better than that,' said the youth, and went to the other anvil.
The old man placed himself near and wanted to look on, and his white beard hung down.
Then the youth seized the axe, split the anvil with one blow, and in it caught the old man's beard.
'Now I have you,' said the youth.
'Now it is your turn to die.'
Then he seized an iron bar and beat the old man till he moaned and entreated him to stop, when he would give him great riches.
The youth drew out the axe and let him go.
The old man led him back into the castle, and in a cellar showed him three chests full of gold.
'Of these,' said he, 'one part is for the poor, the other for the king, the third yours.'
In the meantime it struck twelve, and the spirit disappeared, so that the youth stood in darkness.
'I shall still be able to find my way out,' said he, and felt about, found the way into the room, and slept there by his fire.
Next morning the king came and said: 'Now you must have learnt what shuddering is?'
'No,' he answered; 'what can it be?
'Then,' said the king, 'you have saved the castle, and shall marry my daughter.'
'That is all very well,' said he, 'but still I do not know what it is to shudder!'
And this at last angered her.
Her waiting-maid said: 'I will find a cure for him; he shall soon learn what it is to shudder.'
She went out to the stream which flowed through the garden, and had a whole bucketful of gudgeons brought to her.
Then he woke up and cried: 'Oh, what makes me shudder so?--what makes me shudder so, dear wife?
Ah! now I know what it is to shudder!'
Then the princess came in, and as she passed by them she had something spiteful to say to every one.
The first was too fat: 'He's as round as a tub,' said she.
The next was too tall: 'What a maypole!' said she.
The next was too short: 'What a dumpling!' said she.
The fourth was too pale, and she called him 'Wallface.'
The fifth was too red, so she called him 'Coxcomb.'
The sixth was not straight enough; so she said he was like a green stick, that had been laid to dry over a baker's oven.
And thus she had some joke to crack upon every one: but she laughed more than all at a good king who was there.
'Look at him,' said she; 'his beard is like an old mop; he shall be called Grisly-beard.'
So the king got the nickname of Grisly-beard.
So they brought in a dirty-looking fellow; and when he had sung before the king and the princess, he begged a boon.
Then the king said, 'You have sung so well, that I will give you my daughter for your wife.'
The princess begged and prayed; but the king said, 'I have sworn to give you to the first comer, and I will keep my word.'
So words and tears were of no avail; the parson was sent for, and she was married to the fiddler.
When this was over the king said, 'Now get ready to go--you must not stay here--you must travel on with your husband.'
Then the fiddler went his way, and took her with him, and they soon came to a great wood.
'Pray,' said she, 'whose is this wood?'
'It belongs to King Grisly-beard,' answered he; 'hadst thou taken him, all had been thine.'
'Ah! unlucky wretch that I am!' sighed she; 'would that I had married King Grisly-beard!'
Next they came to some fine meadows.
'Whose are these beautiful green meadows?' said she.
'They belong to King Grisly-beard, hadst thou taken him, they had all been thine.'
'Ah! unlucky wretch that I am!' said she; 'would that I had married King Grisly-beard!'
Then they came to a great city.
'Whose is this noble city?' said she.
'It belongs to King Grisly-beard; hadst thou taken him, it had all been thine.'
'Ah! wretch that I am!' sighed she; 'why did I not marry King Grisly-beard?'
'That is no business of mine,' said the fiddler: 'why should you wish for another husband?
Am not I good enough for you?'
At last they came to a small cottage.
'What a paltry place!' said she; 'to whom does that little dirty hole belong?'
Then the fiddler said, 'That is your and my house, where we are to live.'
'Where are your servants?' cried she.
'What do we want with servants?' said he; 'you must do for yourself whatever is to be done.
Now make the fire, and put on water and cook my supper, for I am very tired.'
But the princess knew nothing of making fires and cooking, and the fiddler was forced to help her.
When they had eaten a very scanty meal they went to bed; but the fiddler called her up very early in the morning to clean the house.
You must learn to weave baskets.'
Then he went out and cut willows, and brought them home, and she began to weave; but it made her fingers very sore.
'I see this work won't do,' said he: 'try and spin; perhaps you will do that better.'
So she sat down and tried to spin; but the threads cut her tender fingers till the blood ran.
'See now,' said the fiddler, 'you are good for nothing; you can do no work: what a bargain I have got!
However, I'll try and set up a trade in pots and pans, and you shall stand in the market and sell them.'
'Alas!' sighed she, 'if any of my father's court should pass by and see me standing in the market, how they will laugh at me!'
But her husband did not care for that, and said she must work, if she did not wish to die of hunger.
Then she began to cry, and knew not what to do.
'Ah! what will become of me?' said she; 'what will my husband say?'
So she ran home and told him all.
Everything was ready, and all the pomp and brightness of the court was there.
Then she bitterly grieved for the pride and folly which had brought her so low.
And the servants gave her some of the rich meats, which she put into her basket to take home.
However, he kept fast hold, and led her in; and the cover of the basket came off, so that the meats in it fell about.
Then everybody laughed and jeered at her; and she was so abashed, that she wished herself a thousand feet deep in the earth.
She sprang to the door to run away; but on the steps King Grisly-beard overtook her, and brought her back and said, 'Fear me not!
I am the fiddler who has lived with you in the hut.
I brought you there because I really loved you.
I am also the soldier that overset your stall.
I have done all this only to cure you of your silly pride, and to show you the folly of your ill-treatment of me.
Now all is over: you have learnt wisdom, and it is time to hold our marriage feast.'
Then the chamberlains came and brought her the most beautiful robes; and her father and his whole court were there already, and welcomed her home on her marriage.
Joy was in every face and every heart.
The feast was grand; they danced and sang; all were merry; and I only wish that you and I had been of the party.
There was once upon a time a king who had a great forest near his palace, full of all kinds of wild animals.
One day he sent out a huntsman to shoot him a roe, but he did not come back.
But of these also, none came home again, none were seen again.
This lasted for many years, when an unknown huntsman announced himself to the king as seeking a situation, and offered to go into the dangerous forest.
The huntsman replied: 'Lord, I will venture it at my own risk, of fear I know nothing.'
The huntsman therefore betook himself with his dog to the forest.
When the huntsman saw that, he went back and fetched three men to come with buckets and bale out the water.
They bound him with cords, and led him away to the castle.
And from this time forth everyone could again go into the forest with safety.
The king had a son of eight years, who was once playing in the courtyard, and while he was playing, his golden ball fell into the cage.
The boy ran thither and said: 'Give me my ball out.'
'Not till you have opened the door for me,' answered the man.
'No,' said the boy, 'I will not do that; the king has forbidden it,' and ran away.
The next day he again went and asked for his ball; the wild man said: 'Open my door,' but the boy would not.
Then the wild man said: 'It lies under your mother's pillow, you can get it there.'
The boy, who wanted to have his ball back, cast all thought to the winds, and brought the key.
The door opened with difficulty, and the boy pinched his fingers.
When it was open the wild man stepped out, gave him the golden ball, and hurried away.
The boy had become afraid; he called and cried after him: 'Oh, wild man, do not go away, or I shall be beaten!'
The wild man turned back, took him up, set him on his shoulder, and went with hasty steps into the forest.
When the king came home, he observed the empty cage, and asked the queen how that had happened.
She knew nothing about it, and sought the key, but it was gone.
She called the boy, but no one answered.
The king sent out people to seek for him in the fields, but they did not find him.
Then he could easily guess what had happened, and much grief reigned in the royal court.
If you do all I bid you, you shall fare well.
Of treasure and gold have I enough, and more than anyone in the world.'
I will come every evening to see if you have obeyed my order.'
As he was thus sitting, his finger hurt him so violently that he involuntarily put it in the water.
In the evening Iron Hans came back, looked at the boy, and said: 'What has happened to the well?'
'Nothing nothing,' he answered, and held his finger behind his back, that the man might not see it.
But he said: 'You have dipped your finger into the water, this time it may pass, but take care you do not again let anything go in.'
By daybreak the boy was already sitting by the well and watching it.
His finger hurt him again and he passed it over his head, and then unhappily a hair fell down into the well.
He took it quickly out, but it was already quite gilded.
Iron Hans came, and already knew what had happened.
'You have let a hair fall into the well,' said he.
On the third day, the boy sat by the well, and did not stir his finger, however much it hurt him.
But the time was long to him, and he looked at the reflection of his face on the surface of the water.
He raised himself up quickly, but the whole of the hair of his head was already golden and shone like the sun.
You can imagine how terrified the poor boy was!
He took his pocket-handkerchief and tied it round his head, in order that the man might not see it.
When he came he already knew everything, and said: 'Take the handkerchief off.'
Then the golden hair streamed forth, and let the boy excuse himself as he might, it was of no use.
'You have not stood the trial and can stay here no longer.
Go forth into the world, there you will learn what poverty is.
My power is great, greater than you think, and I have gold and silver in abundance.'
Then the king's son left the forest, and walked by beaten and unbeaten paths ever onwards until at length he reached a great city.
There he looked for work, but could find none, and he learnt nothing by which he could help himself.
At length he went to the palace, and asked if they would take him in.
The people about court did not at all know what use they could make of him, but they liked him, and told him to stay.
At length the cook took him into his service, and said he might carry wood and water, and rake the cinders together.
He answered: 'Ah, Lord, I cannot; I have a bad sore place on my head.'
The cook, however, had pity on him, and exchanged him for the gardener's boy.
And now the boy had to plant and water the garden, hoe and dig, and bear the wind and bad weather.
Once in summer when he was working alone in the garden, the day was so warm he took his little cap off that the air might cool him.
Then she saw the boy, and cried to him: 'Boy, bring me a wreath of flowers.'
He put his cap on with all haste, and gathered wild field-flowers and bound them together.
When he was ascending the stairs with them, the gardener met him, and said: 'How can you take the king's daughter a garland of such common flowers?
Go quickly, and get another, and seek out the prettiest and rarest.'
'Oh, no,' replied the boy, 'the wild ones have more scent, and will please her better.'
When he got into the room, the king's daughter said: 'Take your cap off, it is not seemly to keep it on in my presence.'
He again said: 'I may not, I have a sore head.'
She, however, caught at his cap and pulled it off, and then his golden hair rolled down on his shoulders, and it was splendid to behold.
He wanted to run out, but she held him by the arm, and gave him a handful of ducats.
With these he departed, but he cared nothing for the gold pieces.
He took them to the gardener, and said: 'I present them to your children, they can play with them.'
She again gave him a handful of ducats, but he would not keep them, and gave them to the gardener for playthings for his children.
On the third day things went just the same; she could not get his cap away from him, and he would not have her money.
Not long afterwards, the country was overrun by war.
Then said the gardener's boy: 'I am grown up, and will go to the wars also, only give me a horse.'
The others laughed, and said: 'Seek one for yourself when we are gone, we will leave one behind us in the stable for you.'
When he came to the outskirts, he called 'Iron Hans' three times so loudly that it echoed through the trees.
Thereupon the wild man appeared immediately, and said: 'What do you desire?'
'I want a strong steed, for I am going to the wars.'
'That you shall have, and still more than you ask for.'
The youth made over his three-legged horse to the stable-boy, mounted the other, and rode at the head of the soldiers.
When he got near the battlefield a great part of the king's men had already fallen, and little was wanting to make the rest give way.
Then the youth galloped thither with his iron soldiers, broke like a hurricane over the enemy, and beat down all who opposed him.
They began to flee, but the youth pursued, and never stopped, until there was not a single man left.
Instead of returning to the king, however, he conducted his troop by byways back to the forest, and called forth Iron Hans.
'What do you desire?' asked the wild man.
'Take back your horse and your troops, and give me my three-legged horse again.'
All that he asked was done, and soon he was riding on his three-legged horse.
When the king returned to his palace, his daughter went to meet him, and wished him joy of his victory.
'I am not the one who carried away the victory,' said he, 'but a strange knight who came to my assistance with his soldiers.'
They asked, too: "Under what hedge have you been lying sleeping all the time?"
So he said: "I did the best of all, and it would have gone badly without me."
And then he was still more ridiculed.'
The king said to his daughter: 'I will proclaim a great feast that shall last for three days, and you shall throw a golden apple.
Perhaps the unknown man will show himself.'
When the feast was announced, the youth went out to the forest, and called Iron Hans.
'What do you desire?' asked he.
'That I may catch the king's daughter's golden apple.'
'It is as safe as if you had it already,' said Iron Hans.
'You shall likewise have a suit of red armour for the occasion, and ride on a spirited chestnut-horse.'
When the day came, the youth galloped to the spot, took his place amongst the knights, and was recognized by no one.
On the second day Iron Hans equipped him as a white knight, and gave him a white horse.
Again he was the only one who caught the apple, and he did not linger an instant, but galloped off with it.
The king grew angry, and said: 'That is not allowed; he must appear before me and tell his name.'
On the third day, he received from Iron Hans a suit of black armour and a black horse, and again he caught the apple.
They rode back and announced this to the king.
The following day the king's daughter asked the gardener about his boy.
The king had him summoned into his presence, and he came and again had his little cap on his head.
'Are you the knight who came every day to the festival, always in different colours, and who caught the three golden apples?' asked the king.
'Yes,' answered he, 'and here the apples are,' and he took them out of his pocket, and returned them to the king.
'If you desire further proof, you may see the wound which your people gave me when they followed me.
But I am likewise the knight who helped you to your victory over your enemies.'
'If you can perform such deeds as that, you are no gardener's boy; tell me, who is your father?'
'My father is a mighty king, and gold have I in plenty as great as I require.'
'I well see,' said the king, 'that I owe my thanks to you; can I do anything to please you?'
'Yes,' answered he, 'that indeed you can.
Give me your daughter to wife.'
His father and mother came to the wedding, and were in great delight, for they had given up all hope of ever seeing their dear son again.
And as they were sitting at the marriage-feast, the music suddenly stopped, the doors opened, and a stately king came in with a great retinue.
Then when the king in his grief promised all she asked, she shut her eyes and died.
But the king was not to be comforted, and for a long time never thought of taking another wife.
At last, however, his wise men said, 'this will not do; the king must marry again, that we may have a queen.'
So messengers were sent far and wide, to seek for a bride as beautiful as the late queen.
But there was no princess in the world so beautiful; and if there had been, still there was not one to be found who had golden hair.
So the messengers came home, and had had all their trouble for nothing.
Now the king had a daughter, who was just as beautiful as her mother, and had the same golden hair.
When the courtiers heard this they were shocked, and said, 'Heaven forbid that a father should marry his daughter!
Out of so great a sin no good can come.'
And thus she thought he would think of the matter no more.
As she was very tired, she sat herself down in the hollow of a tree and soon fell asleep: and there she slept on till it was midday.
'Look sharp!' said the king to the huntsmen, 'and see what sort of game lies there.'
'See,' said the king, 'if you can catch it alive, and we will take it with us.'
Then they said, 'Yes, Miss Cat-skin, you will do for the kitchen; you can sweep up the ashes, and do things of that sort.'
So they put her into the coach, and took her home to the king's palace.
Then they showed her a little corner under the staircase, where no light of day ever peeped in, and said, 'Cat-skin, you may lie and sleep there.'
Thus Cat-skin lived for a long time very sorrowfully.
'Ah! pretty princess!' thought she, 'what will now become of thee?'
I will take care and stand behind the door.'
And the cook said, 'Yes, you may go, but be back again in half an hour's time, to rake out the ashes.'
She next opened her nutshell, and brought out of it the dress that shone like the sun, and so went to the feast.
Everyone made way for her, for nobody knew her, and they thought she could be no less than a king's daughter.
When the dance was at an end she curtsied; and when the king looked round for her, she was gone, no one knew wither.
The guards that stood at the castle gate were called in: but they had seen no one.
Then he went before the king, and he asked him who had cooked the soup.
'I did,' answered the cook.
But the king said, 'That is not true; it was better done than you could do it.'
Then he answered, 'To tell the truth I did not cook it, but Cat-skin did.'
'Then let Cat-skin come up,' said the king: and when she came he said to her, 'Who are you?'
'I am a poor child,' said she, 'that has lost both father and mother.'
'How came you in my palace?' asked he.
'I am good for nothing,' said she, 'but to be scullion-girl, and to have boots and shoes thrown at my head.'
'But how did you get the ring that was in the soup?' asked the king.
Then she would not own that she knew anything about the ring; so the king sent her away again about her business.
After a time there was another feast, and Cat-skin asked the cook to let her go up and see it as before.
'Yes,' said he, 'but come again in half an hour, and cook the king the soup that he likes so much.'
Cat-skin was brought again before the king, but she still told him that she was only fit to have boots and shoes thrown at her head.
But when the king had ordered a feast to be got ready for the third time, it happened just the same as before.
'You must be a witch, Cat-skin,' said the cook; 'for you always put something into your soup, so that it pleases the king better than mine.'
However, he let her go up as before.
Then she ran into the kitchen, and cooked the king's soup; and as soon as the cook was gone, she put the golden brooch into the dish.
But the king said, 'You are my beloved bride, and we will never more be parted from each other.'
And the wedding feast was held, and a merry day it was, as ever was heard of or seen in that country, or indeed in any other.
There was once a poor widow who lived in a lonely cottage.
In front of the cottage was a garden wherein stood two rose-trees, one of which bore white and the other red roses.
She had two children who were like the two rose-trees, and one was called Snow-white, and the other Rose-red.
They were as good and happy, as busy and cheerful as ever two children in the world were, only Snow-white was more quiet and gentle than Rose-red.
They often ran about the forest alone and gathered red berries, and no beasts did them any harm, but came close to them trustfully.
He got up and looked quite kindly at them, but said nothing and went into the forest.
And their mother told them that it must have been the angel who watches over good children.
Snow-white and Rose-red kept their mother's little cottage so neat that it was a pleasure to look inside it.
In the winter Snow-white lit the fire and hung the kettle on the hob.
The kettle was of brass and shone like gold, so brightly was it polished.
And close by them lay a lamb upon the floor, and behind them upon a perch sat a white dove with its head hidden beneath its wings.
One evening, as they were thus sitting comfortably together, someone knocked at the door as if he wished to be let in.
The mother said: 'Quick, Rose-red, open the door, it must be a traveller who is seeking shelter.'
Rose-red screamed and sprang back, the lamb bleated, the dove fluttered, and Snow-white hid herself behind her mother's bed.
But the bear began to speak and said: 'Do not be afraid, I will do you no harm!
I am half-frozen, and only want to warm myself a little beside you.'
'Poor bear,' said the mother, 'lie down by the fire, only take care that you do not burn your coat.'
Then she cried: 'Snow-white, Rose-red, come out, the bear will do you no harm, he means well.'
So they both came out, and by-and-by the lamb and dove came nearer, and were not afraid of him.
It was not long before they grew quite at home, and played tricks with their clumsy guest.
Snow-white, Rose-red, Will you beat your wooer dead?'
As soon as day dawned the two children let him out, and he trotted across the snow into the forest.
'Where are you going, then, dear bear?' asked Snow-white.
'I must go into the forest and guard my treasures from the wicked dwarfs.
The bear ran away quickly, and was soon out of sight behind the trees.
A short time afterwards the mother sent her children into the forest to get firewood.
When they came nearer they saw a dwarf with an old withered face and a snow-white beard a yard long.
He glared at the girls with his fiery red eyes and cried: 'Why do you stand there?
Can you not come here and help me?'
'What are you up to, little man?' asked Rose-red.
'You stupid, prying goose!' answered the dwarf: 'I was going to split the tree to get a little wood for cooking.
The little bit of food that we people get is immediately burnt up with heavy logs; we do not swallow so much as you coarse, greedy folk.
Ugh! how odious you are!'
The children tried very hard, but they could not pull the beard out, it was caught too fast.
'I will run and fetch someone,' said Rose-red.
'You senseless goose!' snarled the dwarf; 'why should you fetch someone?
You are already two too many for me; can you not think of something better?'
'Don't be impatient,' said Snow-white, 'I will help you,' and she pulled her scissors out of her pocket, and cut off the end of the beard.
Bad luck to you!' and then he swung the bag upon his back, and went off without even once looking at the children.
Some time afterwards Snow-white and Rose-red went to catch a dish of fish.
As they came near the brook they saw something like a large grasshopper jumping towards the water, as if it were going to leap in.
They ran to it and found it was the dwarf.
'Where are you going?' said Rose-red; 'you surely don't want to go into the water?'
'I am not such a fool!' cried the dwarf; 'don't you see that the accursed fish wants to pull me in?'
There was nothing to do but to bring out the scissors and cut the beard, whereby a small part of it was lost.
When the dwarf saw that he screamed out: 'Is that civil, you toadstool, to disfigure a man's face?
Was it not enough to clip off the end of my beard?
Now you have cut off the best part of it.
I cannot let myself be seen by my people.
I wish you had been made to run the soles off your shoes!'
Then he took out a sack of pearls which lay in the rushes, and without another word he dragged it away and disappeared behind a stone.
It happened that soon afterwards the mother sent the two children to the town to buy needles and thread, and laces and ribbons.
The road led them across a heath upon which huge pieces of rock lay strewn about.
Immediately they heard a loud, piteous cry.
They ran up and saw with horror that the eagle had seized their old acquaintance the dwarf, and was going to carry him off.
As soon as the dwarf had recovered from his first fright he cried with his shrill voice: 'Could you not have done it more carefully!
You dragged at my brown coat so that it is all torn and full of holes, you clumsy creatures!'
Then he took up a sack full of precious stones, and slipped away again under the rock into his hole.
The girls, who by this time were used to his ingratitude, went on their way and did their business in town.
The evening sun shone upon the brilliant stones; they glittered and sparkled with all colours so beautifully that the children stood still and stared at them.
'Why do you stand gaping there?' cried the dwarf, and his ashen-grey face became copper-red with rage.
He was still cursing when a loud growling was heard, and a black bear came trotting towards them out of the forest.
The dwarf sprang up in a fright, but he could not reach his cave, for the bear was already close.
Then in the dread of his heart he cried: 'Dear Mr Bear, spare me, I will give you all my treasures; look, the beautiful jewels lying there!
Grant me my life; what do you want with such a slender little fellow as I? you would not feel me between your teeth.
Come, take these two wicked girls, they are tender morsels for you, fat as young quails; for mercy's sake eat them!'
The bear took no heed of his words, but gave the wicked creature a single blow with his paw, and he did not move again.
The girls had run away, but the bear called to them: 'Snow-white and Rose-red, do not be afraid; wait, I will come with you.'
Now he has got his well-deserved punishment.
Snow-white was married to him, and Rose-red to his brother, and they divided between them the great treasure which the dwarf had gathered together in his cave.
The old mother lived peacefully and happily with her children for many years.
She took the two rose-trees with her, and they stood before her window, and every year bore the most beautiful roses, white and red.
The Brothers Grimm, Jacob (1785-1863) and Wilhelm (1786-1859), were born in Hanau, near Frankfurt, in the German state of Hesse.
Throughout their lives they remained close friends, and both studied law at Marburg University.
They have been an essential ingredient of children's reading ever since.
The Boscombe Valley Mystery V.
The Man with the Twisted Lip VII.
The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle VIII.
The Adventure of the Speckled Band IX.
The Adventure of the Engineer's Thumb X.
The Adventure of the Noble Bachelor XI.
The Adventure of the Beryl Coronet XII.
To Sherlock Holmes she is always the woman.
I have seldom heard him mention her under any other name.
In his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex.
It was not that he felt any emotion akin to love for Irene Adler.
All emotions, and that one particularly, were abhorrent to his cold, precise but admirably balanced mind.
He never spoke of the softer passions, save with a gibe and a sneer.
They were admirable things for the observer--excellent for drawing the veil from men's motives and actions.
And yet there was but one woman to him, and that woman was the late Irene Adler, of dubious and questionable memory.
I had seen little of Holmes lately.
My marriage had drifted us away from each other.
Beyond these signs of his activity, however, which I merely shared with all the readers of the daily press, I knew little of my former friend and companion.
His rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as I looked up, I saw his tall, spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette against the blind.
He was pacing the room swiftly, eagerly, with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him.
To me, who knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own story.
He had risen out of his drug-created dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem.
I rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own.
His manner was not effusive.
It seldom was; but he was glad, I think, to see me.
Then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion.
"Wedlock suits you," he remarked.
"I think, Watson, that you have put on seven and a half pounds since I saw you."
Just a trifle more, I fancy, Watson.
And in practice again, I observe.
You would certainly have been burned, had you lived a few centuries ago.
He chuckled to himself and rubbed his long, nervous hands together.
Obviously they have been caused by someone who has very carelessly scraped round the edges of the sole in order to remove crusted mud from it.
Hence, you see, my double deduction that you had been out in vile weather, and that you had a particularly malignant boot-slitting specimen of the London slavey.
I could not help laughing at the ease with which he explained his process of deduction.
"Quite so," he answered, lighting a cigarette, and throwing himself down into an armchair.
"Well, some hundreds of times."
"Then how many are there?"
Now, I know that there are seventeen steps, because I have both seen and observed.
He threw over a sheet of thick, pink-tinted notepaper which had been lying open upon the table.
"It came by the last post," said he.
The note was undated, and without either signature or address.
This account of you we have from all quarters received.
"This is indeed a mystery," I remarked.
"What do you imagine that it means?"
It is a capital mistake to theorise before one has data.
Insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit theories, instead of theories to suit facts.
I carefully examined the writing, and the paper upon which it was written.
"The man who wrote it was presumably well to do," I remarked, endeavouring to imitate my companion's processes.
"Peculiar--that is the very word," said Holmes.
"What do you make of that?" asked Holmes.
"The name of the maker, no doubt; or his monogram, rather."
The 'G' with the small 't' stands for 'Gesellschaft,' which is the German for 'Company.'
It is a customary contraction like our 'Co.'
'P,' of course, stands for 'Papier.'
He took down a heavy brown volume from his shelves.
It is in a German-speaking country--in Bohemia, not far from Carlsbad.
'Remarkable as being the scene of the death of Wallenstein, and for its numerous glass-factories and paper-mills.'
His eyes sparkled, and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud from his cigarette.
"The paper was made in Bohemia," I said.
And the man who wrote the note is a German.
Do you note the peculiar construction of the sentence--'This account of you we have from all quarters received.'
A Frenchman or Russian could not have written that.
It is the German who is so uncourteous to his verbs.
It only remains, therefore, to discover what is wanted by this German who writes upon Bohemian paper and prefers wearing a mask to showing his face.
As he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses' hoofs and grating wheels against the curb, followed by a sharp pull at the bell.
"A pair, by the sound," said he.
"Yes," he continued, glancing out of the window.
A hundred and fifty guineas apiece.
"I think that I had better go, Holmes."
I am lost without my Boswell.
And this promises to be interesting.
I may want your help, and so may he.
A slow and heavy step, which had been heard upon the stairs and in the passage, paused immediately outside the door.
Then there was a loud and authoritative tap.
A man entered who could hardly have been less than six feet six inches in height, with the chest and limbs of a Hercules.
His dress was rich with a richness which would, in England, be looked upon as akin to bad taste.
"You had my note?" he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly marked German accent.
"I told you that I would call."
He looked from one to the other of us, as if uncertain which to address.
"Pray take a seat," said Holmes.
I understand that this gentleman, your friend, is a man of honour and discretion, whom I may trust with a matter of the most extreme importance.
I rose to go, but Holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me back into my chair.
"It is both, or none," said he.
"You may say before this gentleman anything which you may say to me."
The Count shrugged his broad shoulders.
"You will excuse this mask," continued our strange visitor.
"I was aware of it," said Holmes dryly.
"I was also aware of that," murmured Holmes, settling himself down in his armchair and closing his eyes.
Holmes slowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently at his gigantic client.
"If your Majesty would condescend to state your case," he remarked, "I should be better able to advise you."
The man sprang from his chair and paced up and down the room in uncontrollable agitation.
Then, with a gesture of desperation, he tore the mask from his face and hurled it upon the ground.
Yet the matter was so delicate that I could not confide it to an agent without putting myself in his power.
"Then, pray consult," said Holmes, shutting his eyes once more.
"Kindly look her up in my index, Doctor," murmured Holmes without opening his eyes.
"Let me see!" said Holmes.
Born in New Jersey in the year 1858.
Prima donna Imperial Opera of Warsaw--yes!
"Was there a secret marriage?"
"No legal papers or certificates?"
"We were both in the photograph."
"You have compromised yourself seriously."
"We have tried and failed."
Twice burglars in my pay ransacked her house.
Once we diverted her luggage when she travelled.
Twice she has been waylaid.
"It is quite a pretty little problem," said he.
"But a very serious one to me," returned the King reproachfully.
"I am about to be married."
You may know the strict principles of her family.
She is herself the very soul of delicacy.
I know that she will do it.
You do not know her, but she has a soul of steel.
She has the face of the most beautiful of women, and the mind of the most resolute of men.
"You are sure that she has not sent it yet?"
"Oh, then we have three days yet," said Holmes with a yawn.
"Then I shall drop you a line to let you know how we progress."
"I tell you that I would give one of the provinces of my kingdom to have that photograph."
The King took a heavy chamois leather bag from under his cloak and laid it on the table.
"There are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in notes," he said.
Holmes scribbled a receipt upon a sheet of his note-book and handed it to him.
"And Mademoiselle's address?" he asked.
"Is Briony Lodge, Serpentine Avenue, St. John's Wood."
Holmes took a note of it.
"One other question," said he.
"Was the photograph a cabinet?"
"If you will be good enough to call to-morrow afternoon at three o'clock I should like to chat this little matter over with you."
At three o'clock precisely I was at Baker Street, but Holmes had not yet returned.
The landlady informed me that he had left the house shortly after eight o'clock in the morning.
I sat down beside the fire, however, with the intention of awaiting him, however long he might be.
So accustomed was I to his invariable success that the very possibility of his failing had ceased to enter into my head.
With a nod he vanished into the bedroom, whence he emerged in five minutes tweed-suited and respectable, as of old.
Putting his hands into his pockets, he stretched out his legs in front of the fire and laughed heartily for some minutes.
"Well, really!" he cried, and then he choked and laughed again until he was obliged to lie back, limp and helpless, in the chair.
I will tell you, however.
I left the house a little after eight o'clock this morning in the character of a groom out of work.
There is a wonderful sympathy and freemasonry among horsey men.
Be one of them, and you will know all that there is to know.
I soon found Briony Lodge.
It is a bijou villa, with a garden at the back, but built out in front right up to the road, two stories.
Large sitting-room on the right side, well furnished, with long windows almost to the floor, and those preposterous English window fasteners which a child could open.
Behind there was nothing remarkable, save that the passage window could be reached from the top of the coach-house.
I walked round it and examined it closely from every point of view, but without noting anything else of interest.
"And what of Irene Adler?"
She is the daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet.
So say the Serpentine-mews, to a man.
She lives quietly, sings at concerts, drives out at five every day, and returns at seven sharp for dinner.
Seldom goes out at other times, except when she sings.
Has only one male visitor, but a good deal of him.
He is dark, handsome, and dashing, never calls less than once a day, and often twice.
He is a Mr. Godfrey Norton, of the Inner Temple.
See the advantages of a cabman as a confidant.
They had driven him home a dozen times from Serpentine-mews, and knew all about him.
What was the relation between them, and what the object of his repeated visits?
Was she his client, his friend, or his mistress?
If the former, she had probably transferred the photograph to his keeping.
If the latter, it was less likely.
On the issue of this question depended whether I should continue my work at Briony Lodge, or turn my attention to the gentleman's chambers in the Temple.
It was a delicate point, and it widened the field of my inquiry.
"I am following you closely," I answered.
He was a remarkably handsome man, dark, aquiline, and moustached--evidently the man of whom I had heard.
Of her I could see nothing.
Presently he emerged, looking even more flurried than before.
Half a guinea if you do it in twenty minutes!'
It hadn't pulled up before she shot out of the hall door and into it.
I only caught a glimpse of her at the moment, but she was a lovely woman, with a face that a man might die for.
I was just balancing whether I should run for it, or whether I should perch behind her landau when a cab came through the street.
The driver looked twice at such a shabby fare, but I jumped in before he could object.
'The Church of St. Monica,' said I, 'and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.'
It was twenty-five minutes to twelve, and of course it was clear enough what was in the wind.
I don't think I ever drove faster, but the others were there before us.
The cab and the landau with their steaming horses were in front of the door when I arrived.
I paid the man and hurried into the church.
There was not a soul there save the two whom I had followed and a surpliced clergyman, who seemed to be expostulating with them.
They were all three standing in a knot in front of the altar.
I lounged up the side aisle like any other idler who has dropped into a church.
Suddenly, to my surprise, the three at the altar faced round to me, and Godfrey Norton came running as hard as he could towards me.
It was the most preposterous position in which I ever found myself in my life, and it was the thought of it that started me laughing just now.
"This is a very unexpected turn of affairs," said I; "and what then?"
It looked as if the pair might take an immediate departure, and so necessitate very prompt and energetic measures on my part.
At the church door, however, they separated, he driving back to the Temple, and she to her own house.
'I shall drive out in the park at five as usual,' she said as she left him.
"Some cold beef and a glass of beer," he answered, ringing the bell.
"You don't mind breaking the law?"
"Nor running a chance of arrest?"
"Oh, the cause is excellent!"
"I was sure that I might rely on you."
"But what is it you wish?"
In two hours we must be on the scene of action.
Miss Irene, or Madame, rather, returns from her drive at seven.
I have already arranged what is to occur.
There is only one point on which I must insist.
You must not interfere, come what may.
There will probably be some small unpleasantness.
It will end in my being conveyed into the house.
Four or five minutes afterwards the sitting-room window will open.
"You are to watch me, for I will be visible to you."
"It is nothing very formidable," he said, taking a long cigar-shaped roll from his pocket.
Your task is confined to that.
When you raise your cry of fire, it will be taken up by quite a number of people.
You may then walk to the end of the street, and I will rejoin you in ten minutes.
"Then you may entirely rely on me."
He disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the character of an amiable and simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman.
It was not merely that Holmes changed his costume.
His expression, his manner, his very soul seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed.
The stage lost a fine actor, even as science lost an acute reasoner, when he became a specialist in crime.
It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street, and it still wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in Serpentine Avenue.
The house was just such as I had pictured it from Sherlock Holmes' succinct description, but the locality appeared to be less private than I expected.
On the contrary, for a small street in a quiet neighbourhood, it was remarkably animated.
The photograph becomes a double-edged weapon now.
Too large for easy concealment about a woman's dress.
She knows that the King is capable of having her waylaid and searched.
Two attempts of the sort have already been made.
There is that double possibility.
But I am inclined to think neither.
Women are naturally secretive, and they like to do their own secreting.
Why should she hand it over to anyone else?
She could trust her own guardianship, but she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a business man.
Besides, remember that she had resolved to use it within a few days.
It must be where she can lay her hands upon it.
"But it has twice been burgled."
"I will get her to show me."
But I hear the rumble of wheels.
As he spoke the gleam of the sidelights of a carriage came round the curve of the avenue.
It was a smart little landau which rattled up to the door of Briony Lodge.
"Is the poor gentleman much hurt?" she asked.
"He is dead," cried several voices.
"No, no, there's life in him!" shouted another.
"But he'll be gone before you can get him to hospital."
"He's a brave fellow," said a woman.
They were a gang, and a rough one, too.
Bring him into the sitting-room.
There is a comfortable sofa.
Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out in the principal room, while I still observed the proceedings from my post by the window.
The lamps had been lit, but the blinds had not been drawn, so that I could see Holmes as he lay upon the couch.
And yet it would be the blackest treachery to Holmes to draw back now from the part which he had intrusted to me.
I hardened my heart, and took the smoke-rocket from under my ulster.
After all, I thought, we are not injuring her.
We are but preventing her from injuring another.
Holmes had sat up upon the couch, and I saw him motion like a man who is in need of air.
A maid rushed across and threw open the window.
At the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the signal I tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of "Fire!"
Thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the open window.
I caught a glimpse of rushing figures, and a moment later the voice of Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm.
He walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards the Edgeware Road.
"You did it very nicely, Doctor," he remarked.
"And how did you find out?"
"She showed me, as I told you she would."
"I am still in the dark."
"I do not wish to make a mystery," said he, laughing.
You, of course, saw that everyone in the street was an accomplice.
I rushed forward, fell down, clapped my hand to my face, and became a piteous spectacle.
"That also I could fathom."
She was bound to have me in.
And into her sitting-room, which was the very room which I suspected.
It lay between that and her bedroom, and I was determined to see which.
When a woman thinks that her house is on fire, her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she values most.
It is a perfectly overpowering impulse, and I have more than once taken advantage of it.
In the case of the Darlington Substitution Scandal it was of use to me, and also in the Arnsworth Castle business.
A married woman grabs at her baby; an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box.
Now it was clear to me that our lady of to-day had nothing in the house more precious to her than what we are in quest of.
She would rush to secure it.
The alarm of fire was admirably done.
The smoke and shouting were enough to shake nerves of steel.
The photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the right bell-pull.
She was there in an instant, and I caught a glimpse of it as she half drew it out.
When I cried out that it was a false alarm, she replaced it, glanced at the rocket, rushed from the room, and I have not seen her since.
I rose, and, making my excuses, escaped from the house.
I shall call with the King to-morrow, and with you, if you care to come with us.
We will be shown into the sitting-room to wait for the lady, but it is probable that when she comes she may find neither us nor the photograph.
"And when will you call?"
She will not be up, so that we shall have a clear field.
Besides, we must be prompt, for this marriage may mean a complete change in her life and habits.
We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door.
There were several people on the pavement at the time, but the greeting appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had hurried by.
"I've heard that voice before," said Holmes, staring down the dimly lit street.
"Now, I wonder who the deuce that could have been."
I slept at Baker Street that night, and we were engaged upon our toast and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushed into the room.
"You have really got it!" he cried, grasping Sherlock Holmes by either shoulder and looking eagerly into his face.
"No, my brougham is waiting."
"Then that will simplify matters."
We descended and started off once more for Briony Lodge.
"Irene Adler is married," remarked Holmes.
"To an English lawyer named Norton."
"But she could not love him."
"I am in hopes that she does."
If the lady loves her husband, she does not love your Majesty.
I wish she had been of my own station!
He relapsed into a moody silence, which was not broken until we drew up in Serpentine Avenue.
The door of Briony Lodge was open, and an elderly woman stood upon the steps.
She watched us with a sardonic eye as we stepped from the brougham.
"Mr. Sherlock Holmes, I believe?" said she.
"I am Mr. Holmes," answered my companion, looking at her with a questioning and rather startled gaze.
My mistress told me that you were likely to call.
Sherlock Holmes staggered back, white with chagrin and surprise.
"Do you mean that she has left England?"
"And the papers?" asked the King hoarsely.
He pushed past the servant and rushed into the drawing-room, followed by the King and myself.
The furniture was scattered about in every direction, with dismantled shelves and open drawers, as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked them before her flight.
Holmes rushed at the bell-pull, tore back a small sliding shutter, and, plunging in his hand, pulled out a photograph and a letter.
The photograph was of Irene Adler herself in evening dress, the letter was superscribed to "Sherlock Holmes, Esq. To be left till called for."
My friend tore it open, and we all three read it together.
SHERLOCK HOLMES,--You really did it very well.
You took me in completely.
Until after the alarm of fire, I had not a suspicion.
But then, when I found how I had betrayed myself, I began to think.
I had been warned against you months ago.
I had been told that, if the King employed an agent, it would certainly be you.
And your address had been given me.
Yet, with all this, you made me reveal what you wanted to know.
Even after I became suspicious, I found it hard to think evil of such a dear, kind old clergyman.
But, you know, I have been trained as an actress myself.
Male costume is nothing new to me.
I often take advantage of the freedom which it gives.
I sent John, the coachman, to watch you, ran upstairs, got into my walking clothes, as I call them, and came down just as you departed.
Then I, rather imprudently, wished you good-night, and started for the Temple to see my husband.
As to the photograph, your client may rest in peace.
I love and am loved by a better man than he.
The King may do what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruelly wronged.
I keep it only to safeguard myself, and to preserve a weapon which will always secure me from any steps which he might take in the future.
"What a woman--oh, what a woman!" cried the King of Bohemia, when we had all three read this epistle.
Would she not have made an admirable queen?
"From what I have seen of the lady, she seems, indeed, to be on a very different level to your Majesty," said Holmes coldly.
"I am sorry that I have not been able to bring your Majesty's business to a more successful conclusion."
I know that her word is inviolate.
"I am glad to hear your Majesty say so."
Pray tell me in what way I can reward you.
"Your Majesty has something which I should value even more highly," said Holmes.
"You have but to name it."
The King stared at him in amazement.
"Certainly, if you wish it."
Then there is no more to be done in the matter.
He bowed, and, turning away without observing the hand which the King had stretched out to him, he set off in my company for his chambers.
He used to make merry over the cleverness of women, but I have not heard him do it of late.
And when he speaks of Irene Adler, or when he refers to her photograph, it is always under the honourable title of the woman.
With an apology for my intrusion, I was about to withdraw when Holmes pulled me abruptly into the room and closed the door behind me.
"You could not possibly have come at a better time, my dear Watson," he said cordially.
"I was afraid that you were engaged."
"Then I can wait in the next room."
The stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a bob of greeting, with a quick little questioning glance from his small fat-encircled eyes.
"Try the settee," said Holmes, relapsing into his armchair and putting his fingertips together, as was his custom when in judicial moods.
"Your cases have indeed been of the greatest interest to me," I observed.
"A proposition which I took the liberty of doubting."
Perhaps, Mr. Wilson, you would have the great kindness to recommence your narrative.
The portly client puffed out his chest with an appearance of some little pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper from the inside pocket of his greatcoat.
I did not gain very much, however, by my inspection.
Our visitor bore every mark of being an average commonplace British tradesman, obese, pompous, and slow.
A frayed top-hat and a faded brown overcoat with a wrinkled velvet collar lay upon a chair beside him.
Altogether, look as I would, there was nothing remarkable about the man save his blazing red head, and the expression of extreme chagrin and discontent upon his features.
Sherlock Holmes' quick eye took in my occupation, and he shook his head with a smile as he noticed my questioning glances.
Mr. Jabez Wilson started up in his chair, with his forefinger upon the paper, but his eyes upon my companion.
"How, in the name of good-fortune, did you know all that, Mr. Holmes?" he asked.
Your right hand is quite a size larger than your left.
"Well, the snuff, then, and the Freemasonry?"
"I won't insult your intelligence by telling you how I read that, especially as, rather against the strict rules of your order, you use an arc-and-compass breastpin."
I have made a small study of tattoo marks and have even contributed to the literature of the subject.
That trick of staining the fishes' scales of a delicate pink is quite peculiar to China.
Mr. Jabez Wilson laughed heavily.
"Well, I never!" said he.
"I thought at first that you had done something clever, but I see that there was nothing in it after all."
'Omne ignotum pro magnifico,' you know, and my poor little reputation, such as it is, will suffer shipwreck if I am so candid.
"Yes, I have got it now," he answered with his thick red finger planted halfway down the column.
This is what began it all.
All red-headed men who are sound in body and mind and above the age of twenty-one years, are eligible.
"What on earth does this mean?"
I ejaculated after I had twice read over the extraordinary announcement.
Holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair, as was his habit when in high spirits.
"It is a little off the beaten track, isn't it?" said he.
It's not a very large affair, and of late years it has not done more than just give me a living.
"What is the name of this obliging youth?" asked Sherlock Holmes.
It's hard to say his age.
You seem most fortunate in having an employé who comes under the full market price.
It is not a common experience among employers in this age.
"Oh, he has his faults, too," said Mr. Wilson.
That is his main fault, but on the whole he's a good worker.
"He is still with you, I presume?"
We live very quietly, sir, the three of us; and we keep a roof over our heads and pay our debts, if we do nothing more.
If my hair would only change colour, here's a nice little crib all ready for me to step into.'
In that way I didn't know much of what was going on outside, and I was always glad of a bit of news.
As far as I can make out, the League was founded by an American millionaire, Ezekiah Hopkins, who was very peculiar in his ways.
From all I hear it is splendid pay and very little to do.'
'You see it is really confined to Londoners, and to grown men.
This American had started from London when he was young, and he wanted to do the old town a good turn.
Then, again, I have heard it is no use your applying if your hair is light red, or dark red, or anything but real bright, blazing, fiery red.
He was very willing to have a holiday, so we shut the business up and started off for the address that was given us in the advertisement.
From north, south, east, and west every man who had a shade of red in his hair had tramped into the city to answer the advertisement.
Fleet Street was choked with red-headed folk, and Pope's Court looked like a coster's orange barrow.
I should not have thought there were so many in the whole country as were brought together by that single advertisement.
When I saw how many were waiting, I would have given it up in despair; but Spaulding would not hear of it.
"Your experience has been a most entertaining one," remarked Holmes as his client paused and refreshed his memory with a huge pinch of snuff.
"Pray continue your very interesting statement."
He said a few words to each candidate as he came up, and then he always managed to find some fault in them which would disqualify them.
Getting a vacancy did not seem to be such a very easy matter, after all.
I cannot recall when I have seen anything so fine.'
He took a step backward, cocked his head on one side, and gazed at my hair until I felt quite bashful.
Then suddenly he plunged forward, wrung my hand, and congratulated me warmly on my success.
'You will, however, I am sure, excuse me for taking an obvious precaution.'
With that he seized my hair in both his hands, and tugged until I yelled with the pain.
'There is water in your eyes,' said he as he released me.
'I perceive that all is as it should be.
But we have to be careful, for we have twice been deceived by wigs and once by paint.
I could tell you tales of cobbler's wax which would disgust you with human nature.'
He stepped over to the window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that the vacancy was filled.
Are you a married man, Mr. Wilson?
I am sorry to hear you say that.
The fund was, of course, for the propagation and spread of the red-heads as well as for their maintenance.
It is exceedingly unfortunate that you should be a bachelor.'
When shall you be able to enter upon your new duties?'
'I should be able to look after that for you.'
Besides, I knew that my assistant was a good man, and that he would see to anything that turned up.
If you leave, you forfeit your whole position forever.
The will is very clear upon that point.
You don't comply with the conditions if you budge from the office during that time.'
There you must stay, or you lose your billet.'
There is the first volume of it in that press.
You must find your own ink, pens, and blotting-paper, but we provide this table and chair.
Will you be ready to-morrow?'
Vincent Spaulding did what he could to cheer me up, but by bedtime I had reasoned myself out of the whole thing.
The table was set out ready for me, and Mr. Duncan Ross was there to see that I got fairly to work.
At two o'clock he bade me good-day, complimented me upon the amount that I had written, and locked the door of the office after me.
It was the same next week, and the same the week after.
Every morning I was there at ten, and every afternoon I left at two.
By degrees Mr. Duncan Ross took to coming in only once of a morning, and then, after a time, he did not come in at all.
It cost me something in foolscap, and I had pretty nearly filled a shelf with my writings.
And no later than this morning.
He held up a piece of white cardboard about the size of a sheet of note-paper.
"I cannot see that there is anything very funny," cried our client, flushing up to the roots of his flaming head.
"If you can do nothing better than laugh at me, I can go elsewhere."
"No, no," cried Holmes, shoving him back into the chair from which he had half risen.
It is most refreshingly unusual.
But there is, if you will excuse my saying so, something just a little funny about it.
I did not know what to do.
Then I called at the offices round, but none of them seemed to know anything about it.
He said that he had never heard of any such body.
Then I asked him who Mr. Duncan Ross was.
He answered that the name was new to him.
He was a solicitor and was using my room as a temporary convenience until his new premises were ready.
He did tell me the address.
Yes, 17 King Edward Street, near St. Paul's.'
"And what did you do then?" asked Holmes.
But he could not help me in any way.
He could only say that if I waited I should hear by post.
But that was not quite good enough, Mr. Holmes.
"And you did very wisely," said Holmes.
"Grave enough!" said Mr. Jabez Wilson.
"Why, I have lost four pound a week."
But I want to find out about them, and who they are, and what their object was in playing this prank--if it was a prank--upon me.
And, first, one or two questions, Mr. Wilson.
"In answer to an advertisement."
"Was he the only applicant?"
"Because he was handy and would come cheap."
"At half wages, in fact."
"What is he like, this Vincent Spaulding?"
Holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excitement.
"I thought as much," said he.
"Have you ever observed that his ears are pierced for earrings?"
"Hum!" said Holmes, sinking back in deep thought.
"Oh, yes, sir; I have only just left him."
"And has your business been attended to in your absence?"
I shall be happy to give you an opinion upon the subject in the course of a day or two.
"Well, Watson," said Holmes when our visitor had left us, "what do you make of it all?"
"I make nothing of it," I answered frankly.
"It is a most mysterious business."
It is your commonplace, featureless crimes which are really puzzling, just as a commonplace face is the most difficult to identify.
"What are you going to do, then?"
"It is quite a three pipe problem, and I beg that you won't speak to me for fifty minutes."
"Sarasate plays at the St. James's Hall this afternoon," he remarked.
I am going through the City first, and we can have some lunch on the way.
I observe that there is a good deal of German music on the programme, which is rather more to my taste than Italian or French.
It is introspective, and I want to introspect.
Three gilt balls and a brown board with "JABEZ WILSON" in white letters, upon a corner house, announced the place where our red-headed client carried on his business.
Sherlock Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked it all over, with his eyes shining brightly between puckered lids.
Then he walked slowly up the street, and then down again to the corner, still looking keenly at the houses.
Finally he returned to the pawnbroker's, and, having thumped vigorously upon the pavement with his stick two or three times, he went up to the door and knocked.
It was instantly opened by a bright-looking, clean-shaven young fellow, who asked him to step in.
"Thank you," said Holmes, "I only wished to ask you how you would go from here to the Strand."
"Third right, fourth left," answered the assistant promptly, closing the door.
"Smart fellow, that," observed Holmes as we walked away.
"The knees of his trousers."
"What I expected to see."
"Why did you beat the pavement?"
We are spies in an enemy's country.
We know something of Saxe-Coburg Square.
It was one of the main arteries which conveyed the traffic of the City to the north and west.
It is a hobby of mine to have an exact knowledge of London.
That carries us right on to the other block.
And now, Doctor, we've done our work, so it's time we had some play.
My friend was an enthusiastic musician, being himself not only a very capable performer but a composer of no ordinary merit.
"You want to go home, no doubt, Doctor," he remarked as we emerged.
"Yes, it would be as well."
I have every reason to believe that we shall be in time to stop it.
But to-day being Saturday rather complicates matters.
"Ten will be early enough."
"I shall be at Baker Street at ten."
He waved his hand, turned on his heel, and disappeared in an instant among the crowd.
What was this nocturnal expedition, and why should I go armed?
Where were we going, and what were we to do?
I had the hint from Holmes that this smooth-faced pawnbroker's assistant was a formidable man--a man who might play a deep game.
I tried to puzzle it out, but gave it up in despair and set the matter aside until night should bring an explanation.
It was a quarter-past nine when I started from home and made my way across the Park, and so through Oxford Street to Baker Street.
Two hansoms were standing at the door, and as I entered the passage I heard the sound of voices from above.
"We're hunting in couples again, Doctor, you see," said Jones in his consequential way.
"I hope a wild goose may not prove to be the end of our chase," observed Mr. Merryweather gloomily.
"You may place considerable confidence in Mr. Holmes, sir," said the police agent loftily.
"Oh, if you say so, Mr. Jones, it is all right," said the stranger with deference.
He's a remarkable man, is young John Clay.
His grandfather was a royal duke, and he himself has been to Eton and Oxford.
His brain is as cunning as his fingers, and though we meet signs of him at every turn, we never know where to find the man himself.
He'll crack a crib in Scotland one week, and be raising money to build an orphanage in Cornwall the next.
I've had one or two little turns also with Mr. John Clay, and I agree with you that he is at the head of his profession.
It is past ten, however, and quite time that we started.
Sherlock Holmes was not very communicative during the long drive and lay back in the cab humming the tunes which he had heard in the afternoon.
We rattled through an endless labyrinth of gas-lit streets until we emerged into Farrington Street.
"We are close there now," my friend remarked.
I thought it as well to have Jones with us also.
He is not a bad fellow, though an absolute imbecile in his profession.
He has one positive virtue.
He is as brave as a bulldog and as tenacious as a lobster if he gets his claws upon anyone.
We had reached the same crowded thoroughfare in which we had found ourselves in the morning.
Our cabs were dismissed, and, following the guidance of Mr. Merryweather, we passed down a narrow passage and through a side door, which he opened for us.
Within there was a small corridor, which ended in a very massive iron gate.
This also was opened, and led down a flight of winding stone steps, which terminated at another formidable gate.
"You are not very vulnerable from above," Holmes remarked as he held up the lantern and gazed about him.
"Nor from below," said Mr. Merryweather, striking his stick upon the flags which lined the floor.
"Why, dear me, it sounds quite hollow!" he remarked, looking up in surprise.
"I must really ask you to be a little more quiet!" said Holmes severely.
A few seconds sufficed to satisfy him, for he sprang to his feet again and put his glass in his pocket.
Then they will not lose a minute, for the sooner they do their work the longer time they will have for their escape.
We are at present, Doctor--as no doubt you have divined--in the cellar of the City branch of one of the principal London banks.
"It is our French gold," whispered the director.
"We have had several warnings that an attempt might be made upon it."
We had occasion some months ago to strengthen our resources and borrowed for that purpose 30,000 napoleons from the Bank of France.
It has become known that we have never had occasion to unpack the money, and that it is still lying in our cellar.
The crate upon which I sit contains 2,000 napoleons packed between layers of lead foil.
"Which were very well justified," observed Holmes.
I expect that within an hour matters will come to a head.
I had brought a pack of cards in my pocket, and I thought that, as we were a partie carrée, you might have your rubber after all.
But I see that the enemy's preparations have gone so far that we cannot risk the presence of a light.
And, first of all, we must choose our positions.
These are daring men, and though we shall take them at a disadvantage, they may do us some harm unless we are careful.
I shall stand behind this crate, and do you conceal yourselves behind those.
Then, when I flash a light upon them, close in swiftly.
I placed my revolver, cocked, upon the top of the wooden case behind which I crouched.
Holmes shot the slide across the front of his lantern and left us in pitch darkness--such an absolute darkness as I have never before experienced.
The smell of hot metal remained to assure us that the light was still there, ready to flash out at a moment's notice.
"They have but one retreat," whispered Holmes.
"I have an inspector and two officers waiting at the front door."
From my position I could look over the case in the direction of the floor.
Suddenly my eyes caught the glint of a light.
At first it was but a lurid spark upon the stone pavement.
For a minute or more the hand, with its writhing fingers, protruded out of the floor.
Then it was withdrawn as suddenly as it appeared, and all was dark again save the single lurid spark which marked a chink between the stones.
Its disappearance, however, was but momentary.
"It's all clear," he whispered.
Sherlock Holmes had sprung out and seized the intruder by the collar.
The other dived down the hole, and I heard the sound of rending cloth as Jones clutched at his skirts.
The light flashed upon the barrel of a revolver, but Holmes' hunting crop came down on the man's wrist, and the pistol clinked upon the stone floor.
"It's no use, John Clay," said Holmes blandly.
"You have no chance at all."
"So I see," the other answered with the utmost coolness.
"I fancy that my pal is all right, though I see you have got his coat-tails."
"There are three men waiting for him at the door," said Holmes.
You seem to have done the thing very completely.
"And I you," Holmes answered.
"Your red-headed idea was very new and effective."
"You'll see your pal again presently," said Jones.
"I beg that you will not touch me with your filthy hands," remarked our prisoner as the handcuffs clattered upon his wrists.
"All right," said Jones with a stare and a snigger.
"Well, would you please, sir, march upstairs, where we can get a cab to carry your Highness to the police-station?"
"That is better," said John Clay serenely.
He made a sweeping bow to the three of us and walked quietly off in the custody of the detective.
"I have had one or two little scores of my own to settle with Mr. John Clay," said Holmes.
It was a curious way of managing it, but, really, it would be difficult to suggest a better.
The method was no doubt suggested to Clay's ingenious mind by the colour of his accomplice's hair.
The £ 4 a week was a lure which must draw him, and what was it to them, who were playing for thousands?
"But how could you guess what the motive was?"
That, however, was out of the question.
It must, then, be something out of the house.
I thought of the assistant's fondness for photography, and his trick of vanishing into the cellar.
There was the end of this tangled clue.
Then I made inquiries as to this mysterious assistant and found that I had to deal with one of the coolest and most daring criminals in London.
He was doing something in the cellar--something which took many hours a day for months on end.
What could it be, once more?
I could think of nothing save that he was running a tunnel to some other building.
I surprised you by beating upon the pavement with my stick.
I was ascertaining whether the cellar stretched out in front or behind.
Then I rang the bell, and, as I hoped, the assistant answered it.
We have had some skirmishes, but we had never set eyes upon each other before.
I hardly looked at his face.
His knees were what I wished to see.
You must yourself have remarked how worn, wrinkled, and stained they were.
They spoke of those hours of burrowing.
The only remaining point was what they were burrowing for.
I walked round the corner, saw the City and Suburban Bank abutted on our friend's premises, and felt that I had solved my problem.
"And how could you tell that they would make their attempt to-night?"
But it was essential that they should use it soon, as it might be discovered, or the bullion might be removed.
Saturday would suit them better than any other day, as it would give them two days for their escape.
"You reasoned it out beautifully," I exclaimed in unfeigned admiration.
"It is so long a chain, and yet every link rings true."
"It saved me from ennui," he answered, yawning.
I already feel it closing in upon me.
My life is spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplaces of existence.
"And you are a benefactor of the race," said I.
"Well, perhaps, after all, it is of some little use," he remarked.
"'L'homme c'est rien--l'œuvre c'est tout,' as Gustave Flaubert wrote to George Sand."
We would not dare to conceive the things which are really mere commonplaces of existence.
"And yet I am not convinced of it," I answered.
"A certain selection and discretion must be used in producing a realistic effect," remarked Holmes.
I smiled and shook my head.
"I can quite understand your thinking so," I said.
But here"--I picked up the morning paper from the ground--"let us put it to a practical test.
Here is the first heading upon which I come.
'A husband's cruelty to his wife.'
There is half a column of print, but I know without reading it that it is all perfectly familiar to me.
There is, of course, the other woman, the drink, the push, the blow, the bruise, the sympathetic sister or landlady.
"Indeed, your example is an unfortunate one for your argument," said Holmes, taking the paper and glancing his eye down it.
He held out his snuffbox of old gold, with a great amethyst in the centre of the lid.
Its splendour was in such contrast to his homely ways and simple life that I could not help commenting upon it.
I asked, glancing at a remarkable brilliant which sparkled upon his finger.
"And have you any on hand just now?"
They are important, you understand, without being interesting.
The larger crimes are apt to be the simpler, for the bigger the crime the more obvious, as a rule, is the motive.
In these cases, save for one rather intricate matter which has been referred to me from Marseilles, there is nothing which presents any features of interest.
He had risen from his chair and was standing between the parted blinds gazing down into the dull neutral-tinted London street.
Suddenly, with a plunge, as of the swimmer who leaves the bank, she hurried across the road, and we heard the sharp clang of the bell.
"I have seen those symptoms before," said Holmes, throwing his cigarette into the fire.
She would like advice, but is not sure that the matter is not too delicate for communication.
And yet even here we may discriminate.
When a woman has been seriously wronged by a man she no longer oscillates, and the usual symptom is a broken bell wire.
Here we may take it that there is a love matter, but that the maiden is not so much angry as perplexed, or grieved.
"Do you not find," he said, "that with your short sight it is a little trying to do so much typewriting?"
"I did at first," she answered, "but now I know where the letters are without looking."
Then, suddenly realising the full purport of his words, she gave a violent start and looked up, with fear and astonishment upon her broad, good-humoured face.
"You've heard about me, Mr. Holmes," she cried, "else how could you know all that?"
Perhaps I have trained myself to see what others overlook.
Oh, Mr. Holmes, I wish you would do as much for me.
"Why did you come away to consult me in such a hurry?" asked Sherlock Holmes, with his finger-tips together and his eyes to the ceiling.
Again a startled look came over the somewhat vacuous face of Miss Mary Sutherland.
"Your father," said Holmes, "your stepfather, surely, since the name is different."
"And your mother is alive?"
I wasn't best pleased, Mr. Holmes, when she married again so soon after father's death, and a man who was nearly fifteen years younger than herself.
"Your own little income," he asked, "does it come out of the business?"
It is quite separate and was left me by my uncle Ned in Auckland.
It is in New Zealand stock, paying 4½ per cent.
"You interest me extremely," said Holmes.
Of course, that is only just for the time.
Mr. Windibank draws my interest every quarter and pays it over to mother, and I find that I can do pretty well with what I earn at typewriting.
"You have made your position very clear to me," said Holmes.
A flush stole over Miss Sutherland's face, and she picked nervously at the fringe of her jacket.
"I met him first at the gasfitters' ball," she said.
Mr. Windibank did not wish us to go.
He never did wish us to go anywhere.
He would get quite mad if I wanted so much as to join a Sunday-school treat.
But this time I was set on going, and I would go; for what right had he to prevent?
He said the folk were not fit for us to know, when all father's friends were to be there.
And he said that I had nothing fit to wear, when I had my purple plush that I had never so much as taken out of the drawer.
"I suppose," said Holmes, "that when Mr. Windibank came back from France he was very annoyed at your having gone to the ball."
He wouldn't have any visitors if he could help it, and he used to say that a woman should be happy in her own family circle.
We could write in the meantime, and he used to write every day.
"Were you engaged to the gentleman at this time?"
We were engaged after the first walk that we took.
"That's the worst of it, Mr. Holmes, I don't know."
"Where did he live, then?"
"He slept on the premises."
"And you don't know his address?"
"No--except that it was Leadenhall Street."
"Where did you address your letters, then?"
"It was most suggestive," said Holmes.
He would rather walk with me in the evening than in the daylight, for he said that he hated to be conspicuous.
Very retiring and gentlemanly he was.
Even his voice was gentle.
"Well, and what happened when Mr. Windibank, your stepfather, returned to France?"
He was in dreadful earnest and made me swear, with my hands on the Testament, that whatever happened I would always be true to him.
Mother said he was quite right to make me swear, and that it was a sign of his passion.
Mother was all in his favour from the first and was even fonder of him than I was.
I didn't quite like that, Mr. Holmes.
"Yes, sir; for he had started to England just before it arrived."
Your wedding was arranged, then, for the Friday.
It was to be at St. Saviour's, near King's Cross, and we were to have breakfast afterwards at the St. Pancras Hotel.
The cabman said that he could not imagine what had become of him, for he had seen him get in with his own eyes.
"It seems to me that you have been very shamefully treated," said Holmes.
He was too good and kind to leave me so.
I believe that he foresaw some danger, or else he would not have talked so.
"But you have no notion as to what it could have been?"
"She was angry, and said that I was never to speak of the matter again."
As he said, what interest could anyone have in bringing me to the doors of the church, and then leaving me?
And yet, what could have happened?
And why could he not write?
She pulled a little handkerchief out of her muff and began to sob heavily into it.
Let the weight of the matter rest upon me now, and do not let your mind dwell upon it further.
"Then you don't think I'll see him again?"
"Then what has happened to him?"
"I advertised for him in last Saturday's Chronicle," said she.
"Here is the slip and here are four letters from him."
"No. 31 Lyon Place, Camberwell."
"He travels for Westhouse & Marbank, the great claret importers of Fenchurch Street."
You have made your statement very clearly.
You will leave the papers here, and remember the advice which I have given you.
I shall be true to Hosmer.
For all the preposterous hat and the vacuous face, there was something noble in the simple faith of our visitor which compelled our respect.
She laid her little bundle of papers upon the table and went her way, with a promise to come again whenever she might be summoned.
"Quite an interesting study, that maiden," he observed.
You will find parallel cases, if you consult my index, in Andover in '77, and there was something of the sort at The Hague last year.
Old as is the idea, however, there were one or two details which were new to me.
"You appeared to read a good deal upon her which was quite invisible to me," I remarked.
You did not know where to look, and so you missed all that was important.
I can never bring you to realise the importance of sleeves, the suggestiveness of thumb-nails, or the great issues that may hang from a boot-lace.
Now, what did you gather from that woman's appearance?
Her jacket was black, with black beads sewn upon it, and a fringe of little black jet ornaments.
Her dress was brown, rather darker than coffee colour, with a little purple plush at the neck and sleeves.
Her gloves were greyish and were worn through at the right forefinger.
Her boots I didn't observe.
Sherlock Holmes clapped his hands softly together and chuckled.
You have really done very well indeed.
It is true that you have missed everything of importance, but you have hit upon the method, and you have a quick eye for colour.
Never trust to general impressions, my boy, but concentrate yourself upon details.
My first glance is always at a woman's sleeve.
In a man it is perhaps better first to take the knee of the trouser.
As you observe, this woman had plush upon her sleeves, which is a most useful material for showing traces.
The double line a little above the wrist, where the typewritist presses against the table, was beautifully defined.
One was buttoned only in the two lower buttons out of five, and the other at the first, third, and fifth.
I asked, keenly interested, as I always was, by my friend's incisive reasoning.
You observed that her right glove was torn at the forefinger, but you did not apparently see that both glove and finger were stained with violet ink.
She had written in a hurry and dipped her pen too deep.
It must have been this morning, or the mark would not remain clear upon the finger.
All this is amusing, though rather elementary, but I must go back to business, Watson.
I held the little printed slip to the light.
Known to have been employed in an office in Leadenhall Street.
"That will do," said Holmes.
Absolutely no clue in them to Mr. Angel, save that he quotes Balzac once.
"They are typewritten," I remarked.
Look at the neat little 'Hosmer Angel' at the bottom.
There is a date, you see, but no superscription except Leadenhall Street, which is rather vague.
"My dear fellow, is it possible you do not see how strongly it bears upon the case?"
"I cannot say that I do unless it were that he wished to be able to deny his signature if an action for breach of promise were instituted."
However, I shall write two letters, which should settle the matter.
It is just as well that we should do business with the male relatives.
I found Sherlock Holmes alone, however, half asleep, with his long, thin form curled up in the recesses of his armchair.
"Well, have you solved it?"
I thought of the salt that I have been working upon.
There was never any mystery in the matter, though, as I said yesterday, some of the details are of interest.
"Who was he, then, and what was his object in deserting Miss Sutherland?"
"This is the girl's stepfather, Mr. James Windibank," said Holmes.
He shot a questioning glance at each of us, placed his shiny top-hat upon the sideboard, and with a slight bow sidled down into the nearest chair.
"Good-evening, Mr. James Windibank," said Holmes.
"I think that this typewritten letter is from you, in which you made an appointment with me for six o'clock?"
I am afraid that I am a little late, but I am not quite my own master, you know.
"On the contrary," said Holmes quietly; "I have every reason to believe that I will succeed in discovering Mr. Hosmer Angel."
Mr. Windibank gave a violent start and dropped his gloves.
"I am delighted to hear it," he said.
Unless they are quite new, no two of them write exactly alike.
Some letters get more worn than others, and some wear only on one side.
"And now I will show you what is really a very interesting study, Mr. Windibank," Holmes continued.
It is a subject to which I have devoted some little attention.
I have here four letters which purport to come from the missing man.
Mr. Windibank sprang out of his chair and picked up his hat.
"I cannot waste time over this sort of fantastic talk, Mr. Holmes," he said.
"If you can catch the man, catch him, and let me know when you have done it."
"Certainly," said Holmes, stepping over and turning the key in the door.
"I let you know, then, that I have caught him!"
"What! where?" shouted Mr. Windibank, turning white to his lips and glancing about him like a rat in a trap.
"Oh, it won't do--really it won't," said Holmes suavely.
It is quite too transparent, and it was a very bad compliment when you said that it was impossible for me to solve so simple a question.
Our visitor collapsed into a chair, with a ghastly face and a glitter of moisture on his brow.
"It--it's not actionable," he stammered.
But between ourselves, Windibank, it was as cruel and selfish and heartless a trick in a petty way as ever came before me.
The man sat huddled up in his chair, with his head sunk upon his breast, like one who is utterly crushed.
It was a considerable sum, for people in their position, and the loss of it would have made a serious difference.
It was worth an effort to preserve it.
Now her marriage would mean, of course, the loss of a hundred a year, so what does her stepfather do to prevent it?
He takes the obvious course of keeping her at home and forbidding her to seek the company of people of her own age.
But soon he found that that would not answer forever.
She became restive, insisted upon her rights, and finally announced her positive intention of going to a certain ball.
What does her clever stepfather do then?
He conceives an idea more creditable to his head than to his heart.
"It was only a joke at first," groaned our visitor.
"We never thought that she would have been so carried away."
She was flattered by the gentleman's attentions, and the effect was increased by the loudly expressed admiration of her mother.
There were meetings, and an engagement, which would finally secure the girl's affections from turning towards anyone else.
But the deception could not be kept up forever.
These pretended journeys to France were rather cumbrous.
Hence those vows of fidelity exacted upon a Testament, and hence also the allusions to a possibility of something happening on the very morning of the wedding.
Our visitor had recovered something of his assurance while Holmes had been talking, and he rose from his chair now with a cold sneer upon his pale face.
If the young lady has a brother or a friend, he ought to lay a whip across your shoulders.
"There's a cold-blooded scoundrel!" said Holmes, laughing, as he threw himself down into his chair once more.
"I cannot now entirely see all the steps of your reasoning," I remarked.
Then the fact that the two men were never together, but that the one always appeared when the other was away, was suggestive.
So were the tinted spectacles and the curious voice, which both hinted at a disguise, as did the bushy whiskers.
"And how did you verify them?"
I knew the firm for which this man worked.
Having taken the printed description.
I had already noticed the peculiarities of the typewriter, and I wrote to the man himself at his business address asking him if he would come here.
As I expected, his reply was typewritten and revealed the same trivial but characteristic defects.
You may remember the old Persian saying, 'There is danger for him who taketh the tiger cub, and danger also for whoso snatches a delusion from a woman.'
We were seated at breakfast one morning, my wife and I, when the maid brought in a telegram.
Have just been wired for from the west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy.
Shall be glad if you will come with me.
"What do you say, dear?" said my wife, looking across at me.
You have been looking a little pale lately.
"I should be ungrateful if I were not, seeing what I gained through one of them," I answered.
"But if I am to go, I must pack at once, for I have only half an hour."
My experience of camp life in Afghanistan had at least had the effect of making me a prompt and ready traveller.
My wants were few and simple, so that in less than the time stated I was in a cab with my valise, rattling away to Paddington Station.
Sherlock Holmes was pacing up and down the platform, his tall, gaunt figure made even gaunter and taller by his long grey travelling-cloak and close-fitting cloth cap.
"It is really very good of you to come, Watson," said he.
Local aid is always either worthless or else biassed.
We had the carriage to ourselves save for an immense litter of papers which Holmes had brought with him.
Among these he rummaged and read, with intervals of note-taking and of meditation, until we were past Reading.
Then he suddenly rolled them all into a gigantic ball and tossed them up onto the rack.
"Have you heard anything of the case?" he asked.
I have just been looking through all the recent papers in order to master the particulars.
"That sounds a little paradoxical."
Singularity is almost invariably a clue.
The more featureless and commonplace a crime is, the more difficult it is to bring it home.
I shall take nothing for granted until I have the opportunity of looking personally into it.
I will explain the state of things to you, as far as I have been able to understand it, in a very few words.
The largest landed proprietor in that part is a Mr. John Turner, who made his money in Australia and returned some years ago to the old country.
One of the farms which he held, that of Hatherley, was let to Mr. Charles McCarthy, who was also an ex-Australian.
Turner was apparently the richer man, so McCarthy became his tenant but still remained, it seems, upon terms of perfect equality, as they were frequently together.
McCarthy had one son, a lad of eighteen, and Turner had an only daughter of the same age, but neither of them had wives living.
McCarthy kept two servants--a man and a girl.
Turner had a considerable household, some half-dozen at the least.
That is as much as I have been able to gather about the families.
From that appointment he never came back alive.
One was an old woman, whose name is not mentioned, and the other was William Crowder, a game-keeper in the employ of Mr. Turner.
Both these witnesses depose that Mr. McCarthy was walking alone.
To the best of his belief, the father was actually in sight at the time, and the son was following him.
He thought no more of the matter until he heard in the evening of the tragedy that had occurred.
The Boscombe Pool is thickly wooded round, with just a fringe of grass and of reeds round the edge.
A girl of fourteen, Patience Moran, who is the daughter of the lodge-keeper of the Boscombe Valley estate, was in one of the woods picking flowers.
She heard Mr. McCarthy the elder using very strong language to his son, and she saw the latter raise up his hand as if to strike his father.
He was much excited, without either his gun or his hat, and his right hand and sleeve were observed to be stained with fresh blood.
On following him they found the dead body stretched out upon the grass beside the pool.
The head had been beaten in by repeated blows of some heavy and blunt weapon.
"I could hardly imagine a more damning case," I remarked.
"If ever circumstantial evidence pointed to a criminal it does so here."
"Circumstantial evidence is a very tricky thing," answered Holmes thoughtfully.
It must be confessed, however, that the case looks exceedingly grave against the young man, and it is very possible that he is indeed the culprit.
"I am afraid," said I, "that the facts are so obvious that you will find little credit to be gained out of this case."
"There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact," he answered, laughing.
I know the military neatness which characterises you.
I could not imagine a man of your habits looking at himself in an equal light and being satisfied with such a result.
I only quote this as a trivial example of observation and inference.
Therein lies my métier, and it is just possible that it may be of some service in the investigation which lies before us.
"It was a confession," I ejaculated.
"No, for it was followed by a protestation of innocence."
"Coming on the top of such a damning series of events, it was at least a most suspicious remark."
However innocent he might be, he could not be such an absolute imbecile as not to see that the circumstances were very black against him.
His frank acceptance of the situation marks him as either an innocent man, or else as a man of considerable self-restraint and firmness.
"Many men have been hanged on far slighter evidence," I remarked.
"What is the young man's own account of the matter?"
I settled myself down in the corner of the carriage and read it very carefully.
On my way I saw William Crowder, the game-keeper, as he had stated in his evidence; but he is mistaken in thinking that I was following my father.
I had no idea that he was in front of me.
When about a hundred yards from the pool I heard a cry of "Cooee!" which was a usual signal between my father and myself.
I then hurried forward, and found him standing by the pool.
He appeared to be much surprised at seeing me and asked me rather roughly what I was doing there.
A conversation ensued which led to high words and almost to blows, for my father was a man of a very violent temper.
Seeing that his passion was becoming ungovernable, I left him and returned towards Hatherley Farm.
I had not gone more than 150 yards, however, when I heard a hideous outcry behind me, which caused me to run back again.
I found my father expiring upon the ground, with his head terribly injured.
I dropped my gun and held him in my arms, but he almost instantly expired.
I knelt beside him for some minutes, and then made my way to Mr. Turner's lodge-keeper, his house being the nearest, to ask for assistance.
I saw no one near my father when I returned, and I have no idea how he came by his injuries.
He was not a popular man, being somewhat cold and forbidding in his manners, but he had, as far as I know, no active enemies.
I know nothing further of the matter.'
I thought that he was delirious.
I can assure you that it has nothing to do with the sad tragedy which followed.
I need not point out to you that your refusal to answer will prejudice your case considerably in any future proceedings which may arise.
Yet I have a vague impression that as I ran forward something lay upon the ground to the left of me.
It seemed to me to be something grey in colour, a coat of some sort, or a plaid perhaps.
When I rose from my father I looked round for it, but it was gone.
"This concluded the examination of the witness."
Holmes laughed softly to himself and stretched himself out upon the cushioned seat.
Don't you see that you alternately give him credit for having too much imagination and too little?
And now here is my pocket Petrarch, and not another word shall I say of this case until we are on the scene of action.
A lean, ferret-like man, furtive and sly-looking, was waiting for us upon the platform.
With him we drove to the Hereford Arms where a room had already been engaged for us.
"I have ordered a carriage," said Lestrade as we sat over a cup of tea.
"I knew your energetic nature, and that you would not be happy until you had been on the scene of the crime."
"It was very nice and complimentary of you," Holmes answered.
"It is entirely a question of barometric pressure."
"I do not quite follow," he said.
No wind, and not a cloud in the sky.
I have a caseful of cigarettes here which need smoking, and the sofa is very much superior to the usual country hotel abomination.
"You have, no doubt, already formed your conclusions from the newspapers," he said.
Still, of course, one can't refuse a lady, and such a very positive one, too.
He had hardly spoken before there rushed into the room one of the most lovely young women that I have ever seen in my life.
Her violet eyes shining, her lips parted, a pink flush upon her cheeks, all thought of her natural reserve lost in her overpowering excitement and concern.
I have driven down to tell you so.
I know that James didn't do it.
I know it, and I want you to start upon your work knowing it, too.
Never let yourself doubt upon that point.
"I hope we may clear him, Miss Turner," said Sherlock Holmes.
"You may rely upon my doing all that I can."
You have formed some conclusion?
Do you not see some loophole, some flaw?
"I think that it is very probable."
"There, now!" she cried, throwing back her head and looking defiantly at Lestrade.
"I am afraid that my colleague has been a little quick in forming his conclusions," he said.
"In what way?" asked Holmes.
James and his father had many disagreements about me.
Mr. McCarthy was very anxious that there should be a marriage between us.
"And your father?" asked Holmes.
"Was he in favour of such a union?"
A quick blush passed over her fresh young face as Holmes shot one of his keen, questioning glances at her.
"Thank you for this information," said he.
"May I see your father if I call to-morrow?"
"I am afraid the doctor won't allow it."
Poor father has never been strong for years back, but this has broken him down completely.
He has taken to his bed, and Dr. Willows says that he is a wreck and that his nervous system is shattered.
"Quite so; at the gold-mines, where, as I understand, Mr. Turner made his money."
No doubt you will go to the prison to see James.
She hurried from the room as impulsively as she had entered, and we heard the wheels of her carriage rattle off down the street.
"I am ashamed of you, Holmes," said Lestrade with dignity after a few minutes' silence.
"I think that I see my way to clearing James McCarthy," said Holmes.
"Have you an order to see him in prison?"
"Yes, but only for you and me."
It was something terrible and deadly.
Might not the nature of the injuries reveal something to my medical instincts?
I rang the bell and called for the weekly county paper, which contained a verbatim account of the inquest.
I marked the spot upon my own head.
Clearly such a blow must have been struck from behind.
That was to some extent in favour of the accused, as when seen quarrelling he was face to face with his father.
Still, it did not go for very much, for the older man might have turned his back before the blow fell.
Still, it might be worth while to call Holmes' attention to it.
Then there was the peculiar dying reference to a rat.
It could not be delirium.
A man dying from a sudden blow does not commonly become delirious.
No, it was more likely to be an attempt to explain how he met his fate.
But what could it indicate?
I cudgelled my brains to find some possible explanation.
And then the incident of the grey cloth seen by young McCarthy.
What a tissue of mysteries and improbabilities the whole thing was!
It was late before Sherlock Holmes returned.
He came back alone, for Lestrade was staying in lodgings in the town.
"The glass still keeps very high," he remarked as he sat down.
"And what did you learn from him?"
"Could he throw no light?"
It was with his barmaid wife that he had spent the last three days in Bristol, and his father did not know where he was.
"But if he is innocent, who has done it?"
I would call your attention very particularly to two points.
The second is that the murdered man was heard to cry 'Cooee!' before he knew that his son had returned.
Those are the crucial points upon which the case depends.
There was no rain, as Holmes had foretold, and the morning broke bright and cloudless.
At nine o'clock Lestrade called for us with the carriage, and we set off for Hatherley Farm and the Boscombe Pool.
"There is serious news this morning," Lestrade observed.
"It is said that Mr. Turner, of the Hall, is so ill that his life is despaired of."
"An elderly man, I presume?" said Holmes.
This business has had a very bad effect upon him.
In a hundred other ways he has helped him.
It is the more strange, since we know that Turner himself was averse to the idea.
The daughter told us as much.
"We have got to the deductions and the inferences," said Lestrade, winking at me.
"I find it hard enough to tackle facts, Holmes, without flying away after theories and fancies."
"You are right," said Holmes demurely; "you do find it very hard to tackle the facts."
"Anyhow, I have grasped one fact which you seem to find it difficult to get hold of," replied Lestrade with some warmth.
"That McCarthy senior met his death from McCarthy junior and that all theories to the contrary are the merest moonshine."
"Well, moonshine is a brighter thing than fog," said Holmes, laughing.
"But I am very much mistaken if this is not Hatherley Farm upon the left."
It was a widespread, comfortable-looking building, two-storied, slate-roofed, with great yellow blotches of lichen upon the grey walls.
The drawn blinds and the smokeless chimneys, however, gave it a stricken look, as though the weight of this horror still lay heavy upon it.
Sherlock Holmes was transformed when he was hot upon such a scent as this.
Men who had only known the quiet thinker and logician of Baker Street would have failed to recognise him.
His face flushed and darkened.
His brows were drawn into two hard black lines, while his eyes shone out from beneath them with a steely glitter.
His face was bent downward, his shoulders bowed, his lips compressed, and the veins stood out like whipcord in his long, sinewy neck.
Swiftly and silently he made his way along the track which ran through the meadows, and so by way of the woods to the Boscombe Pool.
Sometimes Holmes would hurry on, sometimes stop dead, and once he made quite a little detour into the meadow.
Above the woods which lined it upon the farther side we could see the red, jutting pinnacles which marked the site of the rich landowner's dwelling.
To Holmes, as I could see by his eager face and peering eyes, very many other things were to be read upon the trampled grass.
He ran round, like a dog who is picking up a scent, and then turned upon my companion.
"What did you go into the pool for?" he asked.
I thought there might be some weapon or other trace.
That left foot of yours with its inward twist is all over the place.
A mole could trace it, and there it vanishes among the reeds.
Oh, how simple it would all have been had I been here before they came like a herd of buffalo and wallowed all over it.
Here is where the party with the lodge-keeper came, and they have covered all tracks for six or eight feet round the body.
He drew out a lens and lay down upon his waterproof to have a better view, talking all the time rather to himself than to us.
Twice he was walking, and once he ran swiftly, so that the soles are deeply marked and the heels hardly visible.
That bears out his story.
He ran when he saw his father on the ground.
Then here are the father's feet as he paced up and down.
It is the butt-end of the gun as the son stood listening.
Square, too, quite unusual boots!
They come, they go, they come again--of course that was for the cloak.
Holmes traced his way to the farther side of this and lay down once more upon his face with a little cry of satisfaction.
A jagged stone was lying among the moss, and this also he carefully examined and retained.
Then he followed a pathway through the wood until he came to the high road, where all traces were lost.
"It has been a case of considerable interest," he remarked, returning to his natural manner.
I think that I will go in and have a word with Moran, and perhaps write a little note.
Having done that, we may drive back to our luncheon.
"This may interest you, Lestrade," he remarked, holding it out.
"The murder was done with it."
It had only lain there a few days.
There was no sign of a place whence it had been taken.
It corresponds with the injuries.
"I am afraid that I am still a sceptic," he said.
"Theories are all very well, but we have to deal with a hard-headed British jury."
"Nous verrons," answered Holmes calmly.
"And leave your case unfinished?"
"Who was the criminal, then?"
"All right," said Holmes quietly.
Having left Lestrade at his rooms, we drove to our hotel, where we found lunch upon the table.
Holmes was silent and buried in thought with a pained expression upon his face, as one who finds himself in a perplexing position.
I don't know quite what to do, and I should value your advice.
One was the fact that his father should, according to his account, cry 'Cooee!' before seeing him.
The other was his singular dying reference to a rat.
He mumbled several words, you understand, but that was all that caught the son's ear.
"What of this 'Cooee!' then?"
The son, as far as he knew, was in Bristol.
It was mere chance that he was within earshot.
The 'Cooee!' was meant to attract the attention of whoever it was that he had the appointment with.
But 'Cooee' is a distinctly Australian cry, and one which is used between Australians.
Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened it out on the table.
"This is a map of the Colony of Victoria," he said.
"I wired to Bristol for it last night."
He put his hand over part of the map.
That was the word the man uttered, and of which his son only caught the last two syllables.
He was trying to utter the name of his murderer.
And now, you see, I had narrowed the field down considerably.
The possession of a grey garment was a third point which, granting the son's statement to be correct, was a certainty.
"And one who was at home in the district, for the pool can only be approached by the farm or by the estate, where strangers could hardly wander."
"But how did you gain them?"
"Yes, they were peculiar boots."
He put less weight upon it.
The blow was struck from immediately behind, and yet was upon the left side.
Now, how can that be unless it were by a left-handed man?
He had stood behind that tree during the interview between the father and son.
He had even smoked there.
I found the ash of a cigar, which my special knowledge of tobacco ashes enables me to pronounce as an Indian cigar.
I have, as you know, devoted some attention to this, and written a little monograph on the ashes of 140 different varieties of pipe, cigar, and cigarette tobacco.
Having found the ash, I then looked round and discovered the stump among the moss where he had tossed it.
Therefore he used a holder.
I see the direction in which all this points.
"Mr. John Turner," cried the hotel waiter, opening the door of our sitting-room, and ushering in a visitor.
The man who entered was a strange and impressive figure.
It was clear to me at a glance that he was in the grip of some deadly and chronic disease.
"Pray sit down on the sofa," said Holmes gently.
"I thought people would talk if I went to the Hall."
"And why did you wish to see me?"
He looked across at my companion with despair in his weary eyes, as though his question was already answered.
"Yes," said Holmes, answering the look rather than the words.
The old man sank his face in his hands.
"I am glad to hear you say so," said Holmes gravely.
"It may not come to that," said Holmes.
I understand that it was your daughter who required my presence here, and I am acting in her interests.
"I am a dying man," said old Turner.
My doctor says it is a question whether I shall live a month.
Holmes rose and sat down at the table with his pen in his hand and a bundle of paper before him.
"Just tell us the truth," he said.
You will sign it, and Watson here can witness it.
Then I could produce your confession at the last extremity to save young McCarthy.
And now I will make the thing clear to you; it has been a long time in the acting, but will not take me long to tell.
He was a devil incarnate.
God keep you out of the clutches of such a man as he.
His grip has been upon me these twenty years, and he has blasted my life.
I'll tell you first how I came to be in his power.
Black Jack of Ballarat was the name I went under, and our party is still remembered in the colony as the Ballarat Gang.
There were six troopers and six of us, so it was a close thing, but we emptied four of their saddles at the first volley.
Three of our boys were killed, however, before we got the swag.
I put my pistol to the head of the wagon-driver, who was this very man McCarthy.
We got away with the gold, became wealthy men, and made our way over to England without being suspected.
There I parted from my old pals and determined to settle down to a quiet and respectable life.
I married, too, and though my wife died young she left me my dear little Alice.
Even when she was just a baby her wee hand seemed to lead me down the right path as nothing else had ever done.
In a word, I turned over a new leaf and did my best to make up for the past.
All was going well when McCarthy laid his grip upon me.
There's two of us, me and my son, and you can have the keeping of us.
If you don't--it's a fine, law-abiding country is England, and there's always a policeman within hail.'
There was no rest for me, no peace, no forgetfulness; turn where I would, there was his cunning, grinning face at my elbow.
It grew worse as Alice grew up, for he soon saw I was more afraid of her knowing my past than of the police.
I braved him to do his worst.
We were to meet at the pool midway between our houses to talk it over.
But as I listened to his talk all that was black and bitter in me seemed to come uppermost.
He was urging his son to marry my daughter with as little regard for what she might think as if she were a slut from off the streets.
It drove me mad to think that I and all that I held most dear should be in the power of such a man as this.
Could I not snap the bond?
I was already a dying and a desperate man.
Though clear of mind and fairly strong of limb, I knew that my own fate was sealed.
But my memory and my girl!
Both could be saved if I could but silence that foul tongue.
Deeply as I have sinned, I have led a life of martyrdom to atone for it.
But that my girl should be entangled in the same meshes which held me was more than I could suffer.
I struck him down with no more compunction than if he had been some foul and venomous beast.
"Well, it is not for me to judge you," said Holmes as the old man signed the statement which had been drawn out.
"I pray that we may never be exposed to such a temptation."
You are yourself aware that you will soon have to answer for your deed at a higher court than the Assizes.
I will keep your confession, and if McCarthy is condemned I shall be forced to use it.
"Farewell, then," said the old man solemnly.
"Your own deathbeds, when they come, will be the easier for the thought of the peace which you have given to mine."
Tottering and shaking in all his giant frame, he stumbled slowly from the room.
"God help us!" said Holmes after a long silence.
James McCarthy was acquitted at the Assizes on the strength of a number of objections which had been drawn out by Holmes and submitted to the defending counsel.
The year '87 furnished us with a long series of cases of greater or less interest, of which I retain the records.
It was in the latter days of September, and the equinoctial gales had set in with exceptional violence.
As evening drew in, the storm grew higher and louder, and the wind cried and sobbed like a child in the chimney.
My wife was on a visit to her mother's, and for a few days I was a dweller once more in my old quarters at Baker Street.
"Except yourself I have none," he answered.
"I do not encourage visitors."
Nothing less would bring a man out on such a day and at such an hour.
Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his conjecture, however, for there came a step in the passage and a tapping at the door.
He stretched out his long arm to turn the lamp away from himself and towards the vacant chair upon which a newcomer must sit.
The man who entered was young, some two-and-twenty at the outside, well-groomed and trimly clad, with something of refinement and delicacy in his bearing.
The streaming umbrella which he held in his hand, and his long shining waterproof told of the fierce weather through which he had come.
"I owe you an apology," he said, raising his golden pince-nez to his eyes.
"Give me your coat and umbrella," said Holmes.
"That clay and chalk mixture which I see upon your toe caps is quite distinctive."
"I have come for advice."
"That is not always so easy."
"He said that you could solve anything."
"That you are never beaten."
"I have been beaten four times--three times by men, and once by a woman."
"But what is that compared with the number of your successes?"
"It is true that I have been generally successful."
"Then you may be so with me."
"I beg that you will draw your chair up to the fire and favour me with some details as to your case."
"You fill me with interest," said Holmes.
"Pray give us the essential facts from the commencement, and I can afterwards question you as to those details which seem to me to be most important."
The young man pulled his chair up and pushed his wet feet out towards the blaze.
It is a hereditary matter; so in order to give you an idea of the facts, I must go back to the commencement of the affair.
My father had a small factory at Coventry, which he enlarged at the time of the invention of bicycling.
At the time of the war he fought in Jackson's army, and afterwards under Hood, where he rose to be a colonel.
When Lee laid down his arms my uncle returned to his plantation, where he remained for three or four years.
About 1869 or 1870 he came back to Europe and took a small estate in Sussex, near Horsham.
He was a singular man, fierce and quick-tempered, very foul-mouthed when he was angry, and of a most retiring disposition.
During all the years that he lived at Horsham, I doubt if ever he set foot in the town.
He drank a great deal of brandy and smoked very heavily, but he would see no society and did not want any friends, not even his own brother.
This would be in the year 1878, after he had been eight or nine years in England.
He begged my father to let me live with him and he was very kind to me in his way.
I kept all the keys and could go where I liked and do what I liked, so long as I did not disturb him in his privacy.
It was not a common thing for him to receive letters, for his bills were all paid in ready money, and he had no friends of any sort.
'From India!' said he as he took it up, 'Pondicherry postmark!
Opening it hurriedly, out there jumped five little dried orange pips, which pattered down upon his plate.
I began to laugh at this, but the laugh was struck from my lips at the sight of his face.
K.!' he shrieked, and then, 'My God, my God, my sins have overtaken me!'
I took up the envelope and saw scrawled in red ink upon the inner flap, just above the gum, the letter K three times repeated.
There was nothing else save the five dried pips.
What could be the reason of his overpowering terror?
'Tell Mary that I shall want a fire in my room to-day, and send down to Fordham, the Horsham lawyer.'
I leave my estate, with all its advantages and all its disadvantages, to my brother, your father, whence it will, no doubt, descend to you.
If you can enjoy it in peace, well and good!
If you find you cannot, take my advice, my boy, and leave it to your deadliest enemy.
I am sorry to give you such a two-edged thing, but I can't say what turn things are going to take.
Kindly sign the paper where Mr. Fordham shows you.'
I could see a change in my uncle, however.
He drank more than ever, and he was less inclined for any sort of society.
At such times I have seen his face, even on a cold day, glisten with moisture, as though it were new raised from a basin.
We found him, when we went to search for him, face downward in a little green-scummed pool, which lay at the foot of the garden.
We found the brass box there, although its contents had been destroyed.
On the inside of the cover was a paper label, with the initials of K.
K. repeated upon it, and 'Letters, memoranda, receipts, and a register' written beneath.
These, we presume, indicated the nature of the papers which had been destroyed by Colonel Openshaw.
For the rest, there was nothing of much importance in the attic save a great many scattered papers and note-books bearing upon my uncle's life in America.
Some of them were of the war time and showed that he had done his duty well and had borne the repute of a brave soldier.
On the fourth day after the new year I heard my father give a sharp cry of surprise as we sat together at the breakfast-table.
There he was, sitting with a newly opened envelope in one hand and five dried orange pips in the outstretched palm of the other one.
'Here are the very letters.
But what is this written above them?'
There is no other,' said I; 'but the papers must be those that are destroyed.'
'We are in a civilised land here, and we can't have tomfoolery of this kind.
Where does the thing come from?'
'What have I to do with sundials and papers?
I shall take no notice of such nonsense.'
I won't have a fuss made about such nonsense.'
I went about, however, with a heart which was full of forebodings.
I was glad that he should go, for it seemed to me that he was farther from danger when he was away from home.
In that, however, I was in error.
Upon the second day of his absence I received a telegram from the major, imploring me to come at once.
My father had fallen over one of the deep chalk-pits which abound in the neighbourhood, and was lying senseless, with a shattered skull.
I hurried to him, but he passed away without having ever recovered his consciousness.
Carefully as I examined every fact connected with his death, I was unable to find anything which could suggest the idea of murder.
There were no signs of violence, no footmarks, no robbery, no record of strangers having been seen upon the roads.
You will ask me why I did not dispose of it?
The young man took from his waistcoat a crumpled envelope, and turning to the table he shook out upon it five little dried orange pips.
"This is the envelope," he continued.
Within are the very words which were upon my father's last message: 'K.
"What have you done?" asked Holmes.
I have felt like one of those poor rabbits when the snake is writhing towards it.
"Tut! tut!" cried Sherlock Holmes.
Nothing but energy can save you.
"I have seen the police."
Holmes shook his clenched hands in the air.
"They have, however, allowed me a policeman, who may remain in the house with me."
"Has he come with you to-night?"
"No. His orders were to stay in the house."
Again Holmes raved in the air.
"Why did you come to me?" he said, "and, above all, why did you not come at once?"
We should have acted before this.
"There is one thing," said John Openshaw.
He rummaged in his coat pocket, and, drawing out a piece of discoloured, blue-tinted paper, he laid it out upon the table.
Beyond the mention of pips, I do not see that it helps us much.
I think myself that it is a page from some private diary.
Holmes moved the lamp, and we both bent over the sheet of paper, which showed by its ragged edge that it had indeed been torn from a book.
Set the pips on McCauley, Paramore, and John Swain of St. Augustine.
"Thank you!" said Holmes, folding up the paper and returning it to our visitor.
We cannot spare time even to discuss what you have told me.
You must put this piece of paper which you have shown us into the brass box which you have described.
You must also put in a note to say that all the other papers were burned by your uncle, and that this is the only one which remains.
You must assert that in such words as will carry conviction with them.
Having done this, you must at once put the box out upon the sundial, as directed.
I think that we may gain that by means of the law; but we have our web to weave, while theirs is already woven.
The first consideration is to remove the pressing danger which threatens you.
"I thank you," said the young man, rising and pulling on his overcoat.
The streets will be crowded, so I trust that you may be in safety.
"I shall see you at Horsham, then?"
He shook hands with us and took his leave.
Outside the wind still screamed and the rain splashed and pattered against the windows.
Sherlock Holmes sat for some time in silence, with his head sunk forward and his eyes bent upon the red glow of the fire.
Then he lit his pipe, and leaning back in his chair he watched the blue smoke-rings as they chased each other up to the ceiling.
"I think, Watson," he remarked at last, "that of all our cases we have had none more fantastic than this."
"Save, perhaps, the Sign of Four."
"But have you," I asked, "formed any definite conception as to what these perils are?"
"There can be no question as to their nature," he answered.
Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon the arms of his chair, with his finger-tips together.
We have not yet grasped the results which the reason alone can attain to.
Problems may be solved in the study which have baffled all those who have sought a solution by the aid of their senses.
Philosophy, astronomy, and politics were marked at zero, I remember.
Holmes grinned at the last item.
Now, for such a case as the one which has been submitted to us to-night, we need certainly to muster all our resources.
Kindly hand me down the letter K of the American Encyclopædia which stands upon the shelf beside you.
Now let us consider the situation and see what may be deduced from it.
In the first place, we may start with a strong presumption that Colonel Openshaw had some very strong reason for leaving America.
As to what it was he feared, we can only deduce that by considering the formidable letters which were received by himself and his successors.
"The first was from Pondicherry, the second from Dundee, and the third from London."
There can be no doubt that the probability--the strong probability--is that the writer was on board of a ship.
And now let us consider another point.
In the case of Pondicherry, seven weeks elapsed between the threat and its fulfilment, in Dundee it was only some three or four days.
"A greater distance to travel."
"But the letter had also a greater distance to come."
"Then I do not see the point."
It looks as if they always send their singular warning or token before them when starting upon their mission.
You see how quickly the deed followed the sign when it came from Dundee.
If they had come from Pondicherry in a steamer they would have arrived almost as soon as their letter.
But, as a matter of fact, seven weeks elapsed.
And now you see the deadly urgency of this new case, and why I urged young Openshaw to caution.
The blow has always fallen at the end of the time which it would take the senders to travel the distance.
"What can it mean, this relentless persecution?"
I think that it is quite clear that there must be more than one of them.
A single man could not have carried out two deaths in such a way as to deceive a coroner's jury.
There must have been several in it, and they must have been men of resource and determination.
Their papers they mean to have, be the holder of them who it may.
"Have you never--" said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his voice--"have you never heard of the Ku Klux Klan?"
Holmes turned over the leaves of the book upon his knee.
A name derived from the fanciful resemblance to the sound produced by cocking a rifle.
On receiving this the victim might either openly abjure his former ways, or might fly from the country.
If he braved the matter out, death would unfailingly come upon him, and usually in some strange and unforeseen manner.
For some years the organisation flourished in spite of the efforts of the United States government and of the better classes of the community in the South.
Eventually, in the year 1869, the movement rather suddenly collapsed, although there have been sporadic outbreaks of the same sort since that date.'
It may well have been cause and effect.
It is no wonder that he and his family have some of the more implacable spirits upon their track.
It ran, if I remember right, 'sent the pips to A, B, and C'--that is, sent the society's warning to them.
Then there are successive entries that A and B cleared, or left the country, and finally that C was visited, with, I fear, a sinister result for C.
It had cleared in the morning, and the sun was shining with a subdued brightness through the dim veil which hangs over the great city.
Sherlock Holmes was already at breakfast when I came down.
"What steps will you take?"
"You will not go there first?"
As I waited, I lifted the unopened newspaper from the table and glanced my eye over it.
It rested upon a heading which sent a chill to my heart.
"Holmes," I cried, "you are too late."
He spoke calmly, but I could see that he was deeply moved.
The night, however, was extremely dark and stormy, so that, in spite of the help of several passers-by, it was quite impossible to effect a rescue.
The alarm, however, was given, and, by the aid of the water-police, the body was eventually recovered.
We sat in silence for some minutes, Holmes more depressed and shaken than I had ever seen him.
"That hurts my pride, Watson," he said at last.
It becomes a personal matter with me now, and, if God sends me health, I shall set my hand upon this gang.
"They must be cunning devils," he exclaimed at last.
The Embankment is not on the direct line to the station.
The bridge, no doubt, was too crowded, even on such a night, for their purpose.
Well, Watson, we shall see who will win in the long run.
All day I was engaged in my professional work, and it was late in the evening before I returned to Baker Street.
Sherlock Holmes had not come back yet.
It was nearly ten o'clock before he entered, looking pale and worn.
He walked up to the sideboard, and tearing a piece from the loaf he devoured it voraciously, washing it down with a long draught of water.
"You are hungry," I remarked.
It had escaped my memory.
"And how have you succeeded?"
Young Openshaw shall not long remain unavenged.
Why, Watson, let us put their own devilish trade-mark upon them.
He took an orange from the cupboard, and tearing it to pieces he squeezed out the pips upon the table.
Of these he took five and thrust them into an envelope.
Then he sealed it and addressed it to "Captain James Calhoun, Barque Lone Star, Savannah, Georgia."
"That will await him when he enters port," said he, chuckling.
"And who is this Captain Calhoun?"
"How did you trace it, then?"
He took a large sheet of paper from his pocket, all covered with dates and names.
There were thirty-six ships of fair tonnage which were reported there during those months.
"I was not and am not sure which; but I knew that the ship must have an American origin."
I went down to the Albert Dock and found that she had been taken down the river by the early tide this morning, homeward bound to Savannah.
"What will you do, then?"
He and the two mates, are as I learn, the only native-born Americans in the ship.
The others are Finns and Germans.
I know, also, that they were all three away from the ship last night.
I had it from the stevedore who has been loading their cargo.
Very long and very severe were the equinoctial gales that year.
We waited long for news of the Lone Star of Savannah, but none ever reached us.
Isa Whitney, brother of the late Elias Whitney, D.D., Principal of the Theological College of St. George's, was much addicted to opium.
I can see him now, with yellow, pasty face, drooping lids, and pin-point pupils, all huddled in a chair, the wreck and ruin of a noble man.
One night--it was in June, '89--there came a ring to my bell, about the hour when a man gives his first yawn and glances at the clock.
I sat up in my chair, and my wife laid her needle-work down in her lap and made a little face of disappointment.
I groaned, for I was newly come back from a weary day.
We heard the door open, a few hurried words, and then quick steps upon the linoleum.
Our own door flew open, and a lady, clad in some dark-coloured stuff, with a black veil, entered the room.
"Oh, I'm in such trouble!" she cried; "I do so want a little help."
How you startled me, Kate!
"I didn't know what to do, so I came straight to you."
Folk who were in grief came to my wife like birds to a lighthouse.
Now, you must have some wine and water, and sit here comfortably and tell us all about it.
I want the doctor's advice and help, too.
He has not been home for two days.
We soothed and comforted her by such words as we could find.
Did she know where her husband was?
Was it possible that we could bring him back to her?
Hitherto his orgies had always been confined to one day, and he had come back, twitching and shattered, in the evening.
There he was to be found, she was sure of it, at the Bar of Gold, in Upper Swandam Lane.
How could she, a young and timid woman, make her way into such a place and pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him?
There was the case, and of course there was but one way out of it.
Might I not escort her to this place?
And then, as a second thought, why should she come at all?
I was Isa Whitney's medical adviser, and as such I had influence over him.
I could manage it better if I were alone.
But there was no great difficulty in the first stage of my adventure.
Upper Swandam Lane is a vile alley lurking behind the high wharves which line the north side of the river to the east of London Bridge.
As I entered, a sallow Malay attendant had hurried up with a pipe for me and a supply of the drug, beckoning me to an empty berth.
"There is a friend of mine here, Mr. Isa Whitney, and I wish to speak with him."
There was a movement and an exclamation from my right, and peering through the gloom, I saw Whitney, pale, haggard, and unkempt, staring out at me.
He was in a pitiable state of reaction, with every nerve in a twitter.
"I say, Watson, what o'clock is it?"
I thought it was Wednesday.
He sank his face onto his arms and began to sob in a high treble key.
Your wife has been waiting this two days for you.
But you've got mixed, Watson, for I have only been here a few hours, three pipes, four pipes--I forget how many.
But I'll go home with you.
I wouldn't frighten Kate--poor little Kate.
"Yes, I have one waiting."
But I must owe something.
The words fell quite distinctly upon my ear.
I took two steps forward and looked back.
It took all my self-control to prevent me from breaking out into a cry of astonishment.
He had turned his back so that none could see him but I.
I whispered, "what on earth are you doing in this den?"
You may safely trust him, for he appears to be too limp to get into any mischief.
I should recommend you also to send a note by the cabman to your wife to say that you have thrown in your lot with me.
It was difficult to refuse any of Sherlock Holmes' requests, for they were always so exceedingly definite, and put forward with such a quiet air of mastery.
In a few minutes I had written my note, paid Whitney's bill, led him out to the cab, and seen him driven through the darkness.
In a very short time a decrepit figure had emerged from the opium den, and I was walking down the street with Sherlock Holmes.
For two streets he shuffled along with a bent back and an uncertain foot.
Then, glancing quickly round, he straightened himself out and burst into a hearty fit of laughter.
"I was certainly surprised to find you there."
"But not more so than I to find you."
"I came to find a friend."
"And I to find an enemy."
We should be rich men if we had £ 1000 for every poor devil who has been done to death in that den.
It is the vilest murder-trap on the whole riverside, and I fear that Neville St. Clair has entered it never to leave it more.
"Now, Watson," said Holmes, as a tall dog-cart dashed up through the gloom, throwing out two golden tunnels of yellow light from its side lanterns.
"You'll come with me, won't you?"
"But I am all in the dark."
You'll know all about it presently.
All right, John; we shall not need you.
Look out for me to-morrow, about eleven.
A dull wrack was drifting slowly across the sky, and a star or two twinkled dimly here and there through the rifts of the clouds.
"You have a grand gift of silence, Watson," said he.
'Pon my word, it is a great thing for me to have someone to talk to, for my own thoughts are not over-pleasant.
"You forget that I know nothing about it."
It seems absurdly simple, and yet, somehow I can get nothing to go upon.
There's plenty of thread, no doubt, but I can't get the end of it into my hand.
He took a large villa, laid out the grounds very nicely, and lived generally in good style.
By degrees he made friends in the neighbourhood, and in 1887 he married the daughter of a local brewer, by whom he now has two children.
There is no reason, therefore, to think that money troubles have been weighing upon his mind.
The window was open, and she distinctly saw his face, which she describes as being terribly agitated.
There was no sign of him there.
Both he and the Lascar stoutly swore that no one else had been in the front room during the afternoon.
Out there fell a cascade of children's bricks.
It was the toy which he had promised to bring home.
The rooms were carefully examined, and results all pointed to an abominable crime.
The front room was plainly furnished as a sitting-room and led into a small bedroom, which looked out upon the back of one of the wharves.
The bedroom window was a broad one and opened from below.
On examination traces of blood were to be seen upon the windowsill, and several scattered drops were visible upon the wooden floor of the bedroom.
Thrust away behind a curtain in the front room were all the clothes of Mr. Neville St. Clair, with the exception of his coat.
His boots, his socks, his hat, and his watch--all were there.
There were no signs of violence upon any of these garments, and there were no other traces of Mr. Neville St. Clair.
His name is Hugh Boone, and his hideous face is one which is familiar to every man who goes much to the City.
He is a professional beggar, though in order to avoid the police regulations he pretends to a small trade in wax vestas.
Some little distance down Threadneedle Street, upon the left-hand side, there is, as you may have remarked, a small angle in the wall.
His appearance, you see, is so remarkable that no one can pass him without observing him.
"What could he have done single-handed against a man in the prime of life?"
Inspector Barton, who had charge of the case, made a very careful examination of the premises, but without finding anything which threw any light upon the matter.
As to Mrs. St. Clair's assertion that she had actually seen her husband at the window, he declared that she must have been either mad or dreaming.
He was removed, loudly protesting, to the police-station, while the inspector remained upon the premises in the hope that the ebbing tide might afford some fresh clue.
It was Neville St. Clair's coat, and not Neville St. Clair, which lay uncovered as the tide receded.
Every pocket stuffed with pennies and half-pennies--421 pennies and 270 half-pennies.
It was no wonder that it had not been swept away by the tide.
But a human body is a different matter.
There is a fierce eddy between the wharf and the house.
Suppose that this man Boone had thrust Neville St. Clair through the window, there is no human eye which could have seen the deed.
It would of course instantly strike him that he must get rid of the tell-tale garments.
He would seize the coat, then, and be in the act of throwing it out, when it would occur to him that it would swim and not sink.
There is not an instant to be lost.
Boone, as I have told you, was arrested and taken to the station, but it could not be shown that there had ever before been anything against him.
He had for years been known as a professional beggar, but his life appeared to have been a very quiet and innocent one.
Just as he finished, however, we drove through two scattered villages, where a few lights still glimmered in the windows.
"We are on the outskirts of Lee," said my companion.
See that light among the trees?
"But why are you not conducting the case from Baker Street?"
I hate to meet her, Watson, when I have no news of her husband.
We had pulled up in front of a large villa which stood within its own grounds.
A stable-boy had run out to the horse's head, and springing down, I followed Holmes up the small, winding gravel-drive which led to the house.
"I am delighted to see you," said she, pressing my hand warmly.
"You will, I am sure, forgive anything that may be wanting in our arrangements, when you consider the blow which has come so suddenly upon us."
I am not hysterical, nor given to fainting.
"In your heart of hearts, do you think that Neville is alive?"
Sherlock Holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question.
"Frankly, now!" she repeated, standing upon the rug and looking keenly down at him as he leaned back in a basket-chair.
"Frankly, then, madam, I do not."
"You think that he is dead?"
"And on what day did he meet his death?"
"Then perhaps, Mr. Holmes, you will be good enough to explain how it is that I have received a letter from him to-day."
Sherlock Holmes sprang out of his chair as if he had been galvanised.
She stood smiling, holding up a little slip of paper in the air.
He snatched it from her in his eagerness, and smoothing it out upon the table he drew over the lamp and examined it intently.
I had left my chair and was gazing at it over his shoulder.
"Surely this is not your husband's writing, madam."
"No, but the enclosure is."
"I perceive also that whoever addressed the envelope had to go and inquire as to the address."
The rest is of the greyish colour, which shows that blotting-paper has been used.
If it had been written straight off, and then blotted, none would be of a deep black shade.
It is, of course, a trifle, but there is nothing so important as trifles.
Let us now see the letter.
"And you are sure that this is your husband's hand?"
There is a huge error which it may take some little time to rectify.
Written in pencil upon the fly-leaf of a book, octavo size, no water-mark.
Posted to-day in Gravesend by a man with a dirty thumb.
And the flap has been gummed, if I am not very much in error, by a person who had been chewing tobacco.
"But he must be alive, Mr. Holmes."
The ring, after all, proves nothing.
"No, no; it is, it is his very own writing!"
"If so, much may have happened between."
I know that all is well with him.
There is so keen a sympathy between us that I should know if evil came upon him.
And in this letter you certainly have a very strong piece of evidence to corroborate your view.
"And on Monday he made no remarks before leaving you?"
"And you were surprised to see him in Swandam Lane?"
"Then he might have called to you?"
"He only, as I understand, gave an inarticulate cry?"
"A call for help, you thought?"
"And you thought he was pulled back?"
"No, but this horrible man confessed to having been there, and the Lascar was at the foot of the stairs."
"Had he ever spoken of Swandam Lane?"
"Had he ever showed any signs of having taken opium?"
Those are the principal points about which I wished to be absolutely clear.
A large and comfortable double-bedded room had been placed at our disposal, and I was quickly between the sheets, for I was weary after my night of adventure.
It was soon evident to me that he was now preparing for an all-night sitting.
"Game for a morning drive?"
He chuckled to himself as he spoke, his eyes twinkled, and he seemed a different man to the sombre thinker of the previous night.
As I dressed I glanced at my watch.
It was no wonder that no one was stirring.
It was twenty-five minutes past four.
I had hardly finished when Holmes returned with the news that the boy was putting in the horse.
"I want to test a little theory of mine," said he, pulling on his boots.
I deserve to be kicked from here to Charing Cross.
"In the bathroom," he answered.
"Oh, yes, I am not joking," he continued, seeing my look of incredulity.
We made our way downstairs as quietly as possible, and out into the bright morning sunshine.
In the road stood our horse and trap, with the half-clad stable-boy waiting at the head.
We both sprang in, and away we dashed down the London Road.
"It has been in some points a singular case," said Holmes, flicking the horse on into a gallop.
"I confess that I have been as blind as a mole, but it is better to learn wisdom late than never to learn it at all."
In town the earliest risers were just beginning to look sleepily from their windows as we drove through the streets of the Surrey side.
Passing down the Waterloo Bridge Road we crossed over the river, and dashing up Wellington Street wheeled sharply to the right and found ourselves in Bow Street.
Sherlock Holmes was well known to the force, and the two constables at the door saluted him.
One of them held the horse's head while the other led us in.
"Who is on duty?" asked Holmes.
"Ah, Bradstreet, how are you?"
A tall, stout official had come down the stone-flagged passage, in a peaked cap and frogged jacket.
"I wish to have a quiet word with you, Bradstreet."
It was a small, office-like room, with a huge ledger upon the table, and a telephone projecting from the wall.
The inspector sat down at his desk.
"What can I do for you, Mr. Holmes?"
"I called about that beggarman, Boone--the one who was charged with being concerned in the disappearance of Mr. Neville St. Clair, of Lee."
"I should like to see him very much."
"No, I think that I'll take it."
"The third on the right is his," said the inspector.
He quietly shot back a panel in the upper part of the door and glanced through.
"You can see him very well."
We both put our eyes to the grating.
The prisoner lay with his face towards us, in a very deep sleep, breathing slowly and heavily.
He was a middle-sized man, coarsely clad as became his calling, with a coloured shirt protruding through the rent in his tattered coat.
He was, as the inspector had said, extremely dirty, but the grime which covered his face could not conceal its repulsive ugliness.
A shock of very bright red hair grew low over his eyes and forehead.
"He's a beauty, isn't he?" said the inspector.
"He certainly needs a wash," remarked Holmes.
"I had an idea that he might, and I took the liberty of bringing the tools with me."
He opened the Gladstone bag as he spoke, and took out, to my astonishment, a very large bath-sponge.
"Now, if you will have the great goodness to open that door very quietly, we will soon make him cut a much more respectable figure."
"Well, I don't know why not," said the inspector.
"He doesn't look a credit to the Bow Street cells, does he?"
He slipped his key into the lock, and we all very quietly entered the cell.
The sleeper half turned, and then settled down once more into a deep slumber.
Holmes stooped to the water-jug, moistened his sponge, and then rubbed it twice vigorously across and down the prisoner's face.
"Let me introduce you," he shouted, "to Mr. Neville St. Clair, of Lee, in the county of Kent."
Never in my life have I seen such a sight.
The man's face peeled off under the sponge like the bark from a tree.
Gone was the coarse brown tint!
Gone, too, was the horrid scar which had seamed it across, and the twisted lip which had given the repulsive sneer to the face!
Then suddenly realising the exposure, he broke into a scream and threw himself down with his face to the pillow.
The prisoner turned with the reckless air of a man who abandons himself to his destiny.
"And pray what am I charged with?"
"Well, I have been twenty-seven years in the force, but this really takes the cake."
"If I am Mr. Neville St. Clair, then it is obvious that no crime has been committed, and that, therefore, I am illegally detained."
"No crime, but a very great error has been committed," said Holmes.
"You would have done better to have trusted your wife."
"It was not the wife; it was the children," groaned the prisoner.
Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him kindly on the shoulder.
Inspector Bradstreet would, I am sure, make notes upon anything which you might tell us and submit it to the proper authorities.
"God bless you!" cried the prisoner passionately.
My father was a schoolmaster in Chesterfield, where I received an excellent education.
I travelled in my youth, took to the stage, and finally became a reporter on an evening paper in London.
One day my editor wished to have a series of articles upon begging in the metropolis, and I volunteered to supply them.
There was the point from which all my adventures started.
It was only by trying begging as an amateur that I could get the facts upon which to base my articles.
When an actor I had, of course, learned all the secrets of making up, and had been famous in the green-room for my skill.
I took advantage now of my attainments.
I was at my wit's end where to get the money, but a sudden idea came to me.
I begged a fortnight's grace from the creditor, asked for a holiday from my employers, and spent the time in begging in the City under my disguise.
In ten days I had the money and had paid the debt.
Only one man knew my secret.
This fellow, a Lascar, was well paid by me for his rooms, so that I knew that my secret was safe in his possession.
All day a stream of pennies, varied by silver, poured in upon me, and it was a very bad day in which I failed to take £ 2.
My dear wife knew that I had business in the City.
I heard her voice downstairs, but I knew that she could not ascend.
Swiftly I threw off my clothes, pulled on those of a beggar, and put on my pigments and wig.
Even a wife's eyes could not pierce so complete a disguise.
But then it occurred to me that there might be a search in the room, and that the clothes might betray me.
I threw open the window, reopening by my violence a small cut which I had inflicted upon myself in the bedroom that morning.
Then I seized my coat, which was weighted by the coppers which I had just transferred to it from the leather bag in which I carried my takings.
I hurled it out of the window, and it disappeared into the Thames.
I was determined to preserve my disguise as long as possible, and hence my preference for a dirty face.
"That note only reached her yesterday," said Holmes.
"Many times; but what was a fine to me?"
"It must stop here, however," said Bradstreet.
"If the police are to hush this thing up, there must be no more of Hugh Boone."
"I have sworn it by the most solemn oaths which a man can take."
But if you are found again, then all must come out.
I am sure, Mr. Holmes, that we are very much indebted to you for having cleared the matter up.
I had called upon my friend Sherlock Holmes upon the second morning after Christmas, with the intention of wishing him the compliments of the season.
A lens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair suggested that the hat had been suspended in this manner for the purpose of examination.
"You are engaged," said I; "perhaps I interrupt you."
I am glad to have a friend with whom I can discuss my results.
"So much so," I remarked, "that of the last six cases which I have added to my notes, three have been entirely free of any legal crime."
Well, I have no doubt that this small matter will fall into the same innocent category.
"It is to him that this trophy belongs."
I beg that you will look upon it not as a battered billycock but as an intellectual problem.
And, first, as to how it came here.
It arrived upon Christmas morning, in company with a good fat goose, which is, I have no doubt, roasting at this moment in front of Peterson's fire.
In front of him he saw, in the gaslight, a tallish man, walking with a slight stagger, and carrying a white goose slung over his shoulder.
As he reached the corner of Goodge Street, a row broke out between this stranger and a little knot of roughs.
"Which surely he restored to their owner?"
"What, then, did Peterson do?"
"Then, what clue could you have as to his identity?"
"Only as much as we can deduce."
I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather ruefully.
It was a very ordinary black hat of the usual round shape, hard and much the worse for wear.
The lining had been of red silk, but was a good deal discoloured.
It was pierced in the brim for a hat-securer, but the elastic was missing.
"I can see nothing," said I, handing it back to my friend.
You fail, however, to reason from what you see.
"Then, pray tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat?"
He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion which was characteristic of him.
"He has, however, retained some degree of self-respect," he continued, disregarding my remonstrance.
These are the more patent facts which are to be deduced from his hat.
"You are certainly joking, Holmes."
For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head.
It came right over the forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose.
"It is a question of cubic capacity," said he; "a man with so large a brain must have something in it."
"The decline of his fortunes, then?"
These flat brims curled at the edge came in then.
It is a hat of the very best quality.
Look at the band of ribbed silk and the excellent lining.
"Here is the foresight," said he putting his finger upon the little disc and loop of the hat-securer.
"Your reasoning is certainly plausible."
The lens discloses a large number of hair-ends, clean cut by the scissors of the barber.
They all appear to be adhesive, and there is a distinct odour of lime-cream.
"But his wife--you said that she had ceased to love him."
"But he might be a bachelor."
Anyhow, he never got tallow-stains from a gas-jet.
Holmes twisted himself round upon the sofa to get a fairer view of the man's excited face.
Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle.
"Not the Countess of Morcar's blue carbuncle!"
I ought to know its size and shape, seeing that I have read the advertisement about it in The Times every day lately.
The commissionaire plumped down into a chair and stared from one to the other of us.
"It was lost, if I remember aright, at the Hotel Cosmopolitan," I remarked.
John Horner, a plumber, was accused of having abstracted it from the lady's jewel-case.
The evidence against him was so strong that the case has been referred to the Assizes.
He had remained with Horner some little time, but had finally been called away.
Ryder instantly gave the alarm, and Horner was arrested the same evening; but the stone could not be found either upon his person or in his rooms.
Inspector Bradstreet, B division, gave evidence as to the arrest of Horner, who struggled frantically, and protested his innocence in the strongest terms.
You see, Watson, our little deductions have suddenly assumed a much more important and less innocent aspect.
So now we must set ourselves very seriously to finding this gentleman and ascertaining what part he has played in this little mystery.
To do this, we must try the simplest means first, and these lie undoubtedly in an advertisement in all the evening papers.
Now, then: 'Found at the corner of Goodge Street, a goose and a black felt hat.
Mr. Henry Baker can have the same by applying at 6:30 this evening at 221B, Baker Street.'
Then, again, the introduction of his name will cause him to see it, for everyone who knows him will direct his attention to it.
"Oh, in the Globe, Star, Pall Mall, St. James's Gazette, Evening News, Standard, Echo, and any others that occur to you."
When the commissionaire had gone, Holmes took up the stone and held it against the light.
"It's a bonny thing," said he.
Of course it is a nucleus and focus of crime.
They are the devil's pet baits.
In the larger and older jewels every facet may stand for a bloody deed.
This stone is not yet twenty years old.
In spite of its youth, it has already a sinister history.
There have been two murders, a vitriol-throwing, a suicide, and several robberies brought about for the sake of this forty-grain weight of crystallised charcoal.
Who would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the gallows and the prison?
"Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?"
"Well, then, do you imagine that this other one, Henry Baker, had anything to do with the matter?"
"And you can do nothing until then?"
There is a woodcock, I believe.
I had been delayed at a case, and it was a little after half-past six when I found myself in Baker Street once more.
Just as I arrived the door was opened, and we were shown up together to Holmes' room.
"Mr. Henry Baker, I believe," said he, rising from his armchair and greeting his visitor with the easy air of geniality which he could so readily assume.
It is a cold night, and I observe that your circulation is more adapted for summer than for winter.
Ah, Watson, you have just come at the right time.
"Yes, sir, that is undoubtedly my hat."
He was a large man with rounded shoulders, a massive head, and a broad, intelligent face, sloping down to a pointed beard of grizzled brown.
A touch of red in nose and cheeks, with a slight tremor of his extended hand, recalled Holmes' surmise as to his habits.
Our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh.
"Shillings have not been so plentiful with me as they once were," he remarked.
Our visitor half rose from his chair in his excitement.
"Oh, certainly, certainly," answered Mr. Baker with a sigh of relief.
The man burst into a hearty laugh.
Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug of his shoulders.
"There is your hat, then, and there your bird," said he.
"Certainly, sir," said Baker, who had risen and tucked his newly gained property under his arm.
My pence were duly paid, and the rest is familiar to you.
With a comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us and strode off upon his way.
"So much for Mr. Henry Baker," said Holmes when he had closed the door behind him.
"Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow up this clue while it is still hot."
It was a bitter night, so we drew on our ulsters and wrapped cravats about our throats.
Outside, the stars were shining coldly in a cloudless sky, and the breath of the passers-by blew out into smoke like so many pistol shots.
Our footfalls rang out crisply and loudly as we swung through the doctors' quarter, Wimpole Street, Harley Street, and so through Wigmore Street into Oxford Street.
Holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered two glasses of beer from the ruddy-faced, white-aproned landlord.
"Your beer should be excellent if it is as good as your geese," said he.
"Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden."
Well, here's your good health landlord, and prosperity to your house.
"Now for Mr. Breckinridge," he continued, buttoning up his coat as we came out into the frosty air.
Let us follow it out to the bitter end.
We passed across Holborn, down Endell Street, and so through a zigzag of slums to Covent Garden Market.
The salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at my companion.
"Sold out of geese, I see," continued Holmes, pointing at the bare slabs of marble.
"Let you have five hundred to-morrow morning."
"Well, there are some on the stall with the gas-flare."
"Ah, but I was recommended to you."
"The landlord of the Alpha."
"Oh, yes; I sent him a couple of dozen."
To my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the salesman.
"Oh, it is a matter of no importance; but I don't know why you should be so warm over such a trifle."
You'd be as warm, maybe, if you were as pestered as I am.
"Well, I have no connection with any other people who have been making inquiries," said Holmes carelessly.
"Well, then, you've lost your fiver, for it's town bred," snapped the salesman.
"It's nothing of the kind."
"You'll never persuade me to believe that."
"Bring me the books, Bill," said he.
The small boy brought round a small thin volume and a great greasy-backed one, laying them out together beneath the hanging lamp.
Well, then, here on this page are the country folk, and the numbers after their names are where their accounts are in the big ledger.
You see this other page in red ink?
Well, that is a list of my town suppliers.
Now, look at that third name.
"Mrs. Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road--249," read Holmes.
Holmes turned to the page indicated.
"Now, then, what's the last entry?"
"What have you to say now?"
Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined.
A few yards off he stopped under a lamp-post and laughed in the hearty, noiseless fashion which was peculiar to him.
His remarks were suddenly cut short by a loud hubbub which broke out from the stall which we had just left.
"I've had enough of you and your geese," he shouted.
If you come pestering me any more with your silly talk I'll set the dog at you.
You bring Mrs. Oakshott here and I'll answer her, but what have you to do with it?
"No; but one of them was mine all the same," whined the little man.
"Well, then, ask Mrs. Oakshott for it."
"She told me to ask you."
He rushed fiercely forward, and the inquirer flitted away into the darkness.
"Ha! this may save us a visit to Brixton Road," whispered Holmes.
"Come with me, and we will see what is to be made of this fellow."
Striding through the scattered knots of people who lounged round the flaring stalls, my companion speedily overtook the little man and touched him upon the shoulder.
He sprang round, and I could see in the gas-light that every vestige of colour had been driven from his face.
"But you can know nothing of this?"
"Oh, sir, you are the very man whom I have longed to meet," cried the little fellow with outstretched hands and quivering fingers.
"I can hardly explain to you how interested I am in this matter."
Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which was passing.
"In that case we had better discuss it in a cosy room rather than in this wind-swept market-place," said he.
"But pray tell me, before we go farther, who it is that I have the pleasure of assisting."
The man hesitated for an instant.
"My name is John Robinson," he answered with a sidelong glance.
"No, no; the real name," said Holmes sweetly.
"It is always awkward doing business with an alias."
A flush sprang to the white cheeks of the stranger.
"Well then," said he, "my real name is James Ryder."
Head attendant at the Hotel Cosmopolitan.
Then he stepped into the cab, and in half an hour we were back in the sitting-room at Baker Street.
"Here we are!" said Holmes cheerily as we filed into the room.
You look cold, Mr. Ryder.
I will just put on my slippers before we settle this little matter of yours.
"Oh, sir," he cried, "can you tell me where it went to?"
I don't wonder that you should take an interest in it.
It laid an egg after it was dead--the bonniest, brightest little blue egg that ever was seen.
Our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiece with his right hand.
Holmes unlocked his strong-box and held up the blue carbuncle, which shone out like a star, with a cold, brilliant, many-pointed radiance.
Ryder stood glaring with a drawn face, uncertain whether to claim or to disown it.
"The game's up, Ryder," said Holmes quietly.
Give him an arm back into his chair, Watson.
He's not got blood enough to go in for felony with impunity.
Give him a dash of brandy.
Now he looks a little more human.
Still, that little may as well be cleared up to make the case complete.
"It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it," said he in a crackling voice.
It seems to me, Ryder, that there is the making of a very pretty villain in you.
You knew that this man Horner, the plumber, had been concerned in some such matter before, and that suspicion would rest the more readily upon him.
You made some small job in my lady's room--you and your confederate Cusack--and you managed that he should be the man sent for.
Then, when he had left, you rifled the jewel-case, raised the alarm, and had this unfortunate man arrested.
Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my companion's knees.
"For God's sake, have mercy!" he shrieked.
It would break their hearts.
I never went wrong before!
I'll swear it on a Bible.
Oh, don't bring it into court!
"Get back into your chair!" said Holmes sternly.
I will leave the country, sir.
And now let us hear a true account of the next act.
How came the stone into the goose, and how came the goose into the open market?
Ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips.
"I will tell you it just as it happened, sir," said he.
There was no place about the hotel where it would be safe.
I went out, as if on some commission, and I made for my sister's house.
She had married a man named Oakshott, and lived in Brixton Road, where she fattened fowls for the market.
Then I went into the back yard and smoked a pipe and wondered what it would be best to do.
One day he had met me, and fell into talk about the ways of thieves, and how they could get rid of what they stole.
He would show me how to turn the stone into money.
But how to get to him in safety?
I thought of the agonies I had gone through in coming from the hotel.
I might at any moment be seized and searched, and there would be the stone in my waistcoat pocket.
I would take my goose now, and in it I would carry my stone to Kilburn.
There was a little shed in the yard, and behind this I drove one of the birds--a fine big one, white, with a barred tail.
I caught it, and prying its bill open, I thrust the stone down its throat as far as my finger could reach.
The bird gave a gulp, and I felt the stone pass along its gullet and down into its crop.
But the creature flapped and struggled, and out came my sister to know what was the matter.
As I turned to speak to her the brute broke loose and fluttered off among the others.
It's the big white one over yonder.
There's twenty-six of them, which makes one for you, and one for us, and two dozen for the market.'
I'll have the other, and I'll take it now,' said I.
'Which is it you want, then?'
Kill it and take it with you.'
I told my pal what I had done, for he was a man that it was easy to tell a thing like that to.
He laughed until he choked, and we got a knife and opened the goose.
My heart turned to water, for there was no sign of the stone, and I knew that some terrible mistake had occurred.
I left the bird, rushed back to my sister's, and hurried into the back yard.
There was not a bird to be seen there.
I asked, 'the same as the one I chose?'
You heard him yourselves to-night.
Well, he has always answered me like that.
My sister thinks that I am going mad.
Sometimes I think that I am myself.
And now--and now I am myself a branded thief, without ever having touched the wealth for which I sold my character.
He burst into convulsive sobbing, with his face buried in his hands.
There was a long silence, broken only by his heavy breathing and by the measured tapping of Sherlock Holmes' finger-tips upon the edge of the table.
Then my friend rose and threw open the door.
And no more words were needed.
There was a rush, a clatter upon the stairs, the bang of a door, and the crisp rattle of running footfalls from the street.
If Horner were in danger it would be another thing; but this fellow will not appear against him, and the case must collapse.
I suppose that I am commuting a felony, but it is just possible that I am saving a soul.
This fellow will not go wrong again; he is too terribly frightened.
Send him to gaol now, and you make him a gaol-bird for life.
Besides, it is the season of forgiveness.
Chance has put in our way a most singular and whimsical problem, and its solution is its own reward.
The events in question occurred in the early days of my association with Holmes, when we were sharing rooms as bachelors in Baker Street.
It was early in April in the year '83 that I woke one morning to find Sherlock Holmes standing, fully dressed, by the side of my bed.
"What is it, then--a fire?"
It seems that a young lady has arrived in a considerable state of excitement, who insists upon seeing me.
She is waiting now in the sitting-room.
Should it prove to be an interesting case, you would, I am sure, wish to follow it from the outset.
"My dear fellow, I would not miss it for anything."
I rapidly threw on my clothes and was ready in a few minutes to accompany my friend down to the sitting-room.
A lady dressed in black and heavily veiled, who had been sitting in the window, rose as we entered.
"Good-morning, madam," said Holmes cheerily.
This is my intimate friend and associate, Dr. Watson, before whom you can speak as freely as before myself.
I am glad to see that Mrs. Hudson has had the good sense to light the fire.
"It is not cold which makes me shiver," said the woman in a low voice, changing her seat as requested.
Her features and figure were those of a woman of thirty, but her hair was shot with premature grey, and her expression was weary and haggard.
Sherlock Holmes ran her over with one of his quick, all-comprehensive glances.
"You must not fear," said he soothingly, bending forward and patting her forearm.
The lady gave a violent start and stared in bewilderment at my companion.
"There is no mystery, my dear madam," said he, smiling.
The marks are perfectly fresh.
"Whatever your reasons may be, you are perfectly correct," said she.
Sir, I can stand this strain no longer; I shall go mad if it continues.
I have no one to turn to--none, save only one, who cares for me, and he, poor fellow, can be of little aid.
I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes; I have heard of you from Mrs. Farintosh, whom you helped in the hour of her sore need.
It was from her that I had your address.
Oh, sir, do you not think that you could help me, too, and at least throw a little light through the dense darkness which surrounds me?
Holmes turned to his desk and, unlocking it, drew out a small case-book, which he consulted.
I think it was before your time, Watson.
I can only say, madam, that I shall be happy to devote the same care to your case as I did to that of your friend.
He does not say so, but I can read it from his soothing answers and averted eyes.
But I have heard, Mr. Holmes, that you can see deeply into the manifold wickedness of the human heart.
"I am all attention, madam."
"The name is familiar to me," said he.
Nothing was left save a few acres of ground, and the two-hundred-year-old house, which is itself crushed under a heavy mortgage.
As it was, he suffered a long term of imprisonment and afterwards returned to England a morose and disappointed man.
My sister Julia and I were twins, and we were only two years old at the time of my mother's re-marriage.
Shortly after our return to England my mother died--she was killed eight years ago in a railway accident near Crewe.
Dr. Roylott then abandoned his attempts to establish himself in practice in London and took us to live with him in the old ancestral house at Stoke Moran.
The money which my mother had left was enough for all our wants, and there seemed to be no obstacle to our happiness.
No servant would stay with us, and for a long time we did all the work of the house.
"Your sister is dead, then?"
You can understand that, living the life which I have described, we were little likely to see anyone of our own age and position.
Julia went there at Christmas two years ago, and met there a half-pay major of marines, to whom she became engaged.
"Pray be precise as to details," said he.
The manor-house is, as I have already said, very old, and only one wing is now inhabited.
The bedrooms in this wing are on the ground floor, the sitting-rooms being in the central block of the buildings.
Of these bedrooms the first is Dr. Roylott's, the second my sister's, and the third my own.
There is no communication between them, but they all open out into the same corridor.
She left her room, therefore, and came into mine, where she sat for some time, chatting about her approaching wedding.
At eleven o'clock she rose to leave me, but she paused at the door and looked back.
I am a light sleeper, and it has awakened me.
I cannot tell where it came from--perhaps from the next room, perhaps from the lawn.
I thought that I would just ask you whether you had heard it.'
It must be those wretched gipsies in the plantation.'
And yet if it were on the lawn, I wonder that you did not hear it also.'
"Was it your custom always to lock yourselves in at night?"
A vague feeling of impending misfortune impressed me.
My sister and I, you will recollect, were twins, and you know how subtle are the links which bind two souls which are so closely allied.
The wind was howling outside, and the rain was beating and splashing against the windows.
Suddenly, amid all the hubbub of the gale, there burst forth the wild scream of a terrified woman.
I knew that it was my sister's voice.
I sprang from my bed, wrapped a shawl round me, and rushed into the corridor.
As I ran down the passage, my sister's door was unlocked, and revolved slowly upon its hinges.
I stared at it horror-stricken, not knowing what was about to issue from it.
I ran to her and threw my arms round her, but at that moment her knees seemed to give way and she fell to the ground.
She writhed as one who is in terrible pain, and her limbs were dreadfully convulsed.
I rushed out, calling loudly for my stepfather, and I met him hastening from his room in his dressing-gown.
The walls were carefully sounded, and were shown to be quite solid all round, and the flooring was also thoroughly examined, with the same result.
The chimney is wide, but is barred up by four large staples.
It is certain, therefore, that my sister was quite alone when she met her end.
"The doctors examined her for it, but without success."
"What do you think that this unfortunate lady died of, then?"
"It is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock, though what it was that frightened her I cannot imagine."
"Were there gipsies in the plantation at the time?"
"Yes, there are nearly always some there."
"Ah, and what did you gather from this allusion to a band--a speckled band?"
Holmes shook his head like a man who is far from being satisfied.
"These are very deep waters," said he; "pray go on with your narrative."
A month ago, however, a dear friend, whom I have known for many years, has done me the honour to ask my hand in marriage.
His name is Armitage--Percy Armitage--the second son of Mr. Armitage, of Crane Water, near Reading.
My stepfather has offered no opposition to the match, and we are to be married in the course of the spring.
I sprang up and lit the lamp, but nothing was to be seen in the room.
"You have done wisely," said my friend.
"But have you told me all?"
For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of black lace which fringed the hand that lay upon our visitor's knee.
Five little livid spots, the marks of four fingers and a thumb, were printed upon the white wrist.
"You have been cruelly used," said Holmes.
The lady coloured deeply and covered over her injured wrist.
"He is a hard man," she said, "and perhaps he hardly knows his own strength."
There was a long silence, during which Holmes leaned his chin upon his hands and stared into the crackling fire.
"This is a very deep business," he said at last.
Yet we have not a moment to lose.
It is probable that he will be away all day, and that there would be nothing to disturb you.
I have myself some small business matters to attend to.
My heart is lightened already since I have confided my trouble to you.
She dropped her thick black veil over her face and glided from the room.
"And what do you think of it all, Watson?" asked Sherlock Holmes, leaning back in his chair.
"It seems to me to be a most dark and sinister business."
"Dark enough and sinister enough."
"What becomes, then, of these nocturnal whistles, and what of the very peculiar words of the dying woman?"
"But what, then, did the gipsies do?"
"I see many objections to any such theory."
It is precisely for that reason that we are going to Stoke Moran this day.
I want to see whether the objections are fatal, or if they may be explained away.
So tall was he that his hat actually brushed the cross bar of the doorway, and his breadth seemed to span it across from side to side.
"Which of you is Holmes?" asked this apparition.
"My name, sir; but you have the advantage of me," said my companion quietly.
"I am Dr. Grimesby Roylott, of Stoke Moran."
"Indeed, Doctor," said Holmes blandly.
My stepdaughter has been here.
"It is a little cold for the time of the year," said Holmes.
"What has she been saying to you?" screamed the old man furiously.
"But I have heard that the crocuses promise well," continued my companion imperturbably.
I have heard of you before.
"Holmes, the Scotland Yard Jack-in-office!"
"Your conversation is most entertaining," said he.
"When you go out close the door, for there is a decided draught."
Don't you dare to meddle with my affairs.
I know that Miss Stoner has been here.
I am a dangerous man to fall foul of!
He stepped swiftly forward, seized the poker, and bent it into a curve with his huge brown hands.
"See that you keep yourself out of my grip," he snarled, and hurling the twisted poker into the fireplace he strode out of the room.
"He seems a very amiable person," said Holmes, laughing.
"I am not quite so bulky, but if he had remained I might have shown him that my grip was not much more feeble than his own."
As he spoke he picked up the steel poker and, with a sudden effort, straightened it out again.
It was nearly one o'clock when Sherlock Holmes returned from his excursion.
He held in his hand a sheet of blue paper, scrawled over with notes and figures.
"I have seen the will of the deceased wife," said he.
Each daughter can claim an income of £ 250, in case of marriage.
My morning's work has not been wasted, since it has proved that he has the very strongest motives for standing in the way of anything of the sort.
I should be very much obliged if you would slip your revolver into your pocket.
An Eley's No. 2 is an excellent argument with gentlemen who can twist steel pokers into knots.
It was a perfect day, with a bright sun and a few fleecy clouds in the heavens.
The trees and wayside hedges were just throwing out their first green shoots, and the air was full of the pleasant smell of the moist earth.
To me at least there was a strange contrast between the sweet promise of the spring and this sinister quest upon which we were engaged.
Suddenly, however, he started, tapped me on the shoulder, and pointed over the meadows.
A heavily timbered park stretched up in a gentle slope, thickening into a grove at the highest point.
From amid the branches there jutted out the grey gables and high roof-tree of a very old mansion.
"Yes, sir, that be the house of Dr. Grimesby Roylott," remarked the driver.
"There is some building going on there," said Holmes; "that is where we are going."
"And the lady, I fancy, is Miss Stoner," observed Holmes, shading his eyes.
"Yes, I think we had better do as you suggest."
We got off, paid our fare, and the trap rattled back on its way to Leatherhead.
Our client of the morning had hurried forward to meet us with a face which spoke her joy.
"I have been waiting so eagerly for you," she cried, shaking hands with us warmly.
"We have had the pleasure of making the Doctor's acquaintance," said Holmes, and in a few words he sketched out what had occurred.
Miss Stoner turned white to the lips as she listened.
"Good heavens!" she cried, "he has followed me, then."
You must lock yourself up from him to-night.
If he is violent, we shall take you away to your aunt's at Harrow.
The building was of grey, lichen-blotched stone, with a high central portion and two curving wings, like the claws of a crab, thrown out on each side.
In one of these wings the windows were broken and blocked with wooden boards, while the roof was partly caved in, a picture of ruin.
Holmes walked slowly up and down the ill-trimmed lawn and examined with deep attention the outsides of the windows.
Now, on the other side of this narrow wing runs the corridor from which these three rooms open.
Miss Stoner did so, and Holmes, after a careful examination through the open window, endeavoured in every way to force the shutter open, but without success.
There was no slit through which a knife could be passed to raise the bar.
Then with his lens he tested the hinges, but they were of solid iron, built firmly into the massive masonry.
No one could pass these shutters if they were bolted.
A small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which the three bedrooms opened.
It was a homely little room, with a low ceiling and a gaping fireplace, after the fashion of old country-houses.
A brown chest of drawers stood in one corner, a narrow white-counterpaned bed in another, and a dressing-table on the left-hand side of the window.
These articles, with two small wicker-work chairs, made up all the furniture in the room save for a square of Wilton carpet in the centre.
"Where does that bell communicate with?" he asked at last pointing to a thick bell-rope which hung down beside the bed, the tassel actually lying upon the pillow.
"It goes to the housekeeper's room."
"It looks newer than the other things?"
"Yes, it was only put there a couple of years ago."
"Your sister asked for it, I suppose?"
He threw himself down upon his face with his lens in his hand and crawled swiftly backward and forward, examining minutely the cracks between the boards.
Then he did the same with the wood-work with which the chamber was panelled.
Finally he walked over to the bed and spent some time in staring at it and in running his eye up and down the wall.
Finally he took the bell-rope in his hand and gave it a brisk tug.
"Why, it's a dummy," said he.
"Very strange!" muttered Holmes, pulling at the rope.
"That is also quite modern," said the lady.
"Done about the same time as the bell-rope?" remarked Holmes.
"Yes, there were several little changes carried out about that time."
Dr. Grimesby Roylott's chamber was larger than that of his step-daughter, but was as plainly furnished.
Holmes walked slowly round and examined each and all of them with the keenest interest.
"What's in here?" he asked, tapping the safe.
"Oh! you have seen inside, then?"
"There isn't a cat in it, for example?"
"No. What a strange idea!"
He took up a small saucer of milk which stood on the top of it.
Well, a cheetah is just a big cat, and yet a saucer of milk does not go very far in satisfying its wants, I daresay.
He squatted down in front of the wooden chair and examined the seat of it with the greatest attention.
The object which had caught his eye was a small dog lash hung on one corner of the bed.
The lash, however, was curled upon itself and tied so as to make a loop of whipcord.
"What do you make of that, Watson?"
Ah, me! it's a wicked world, and when a clever man turns his brains to crime it is the worst of all.
I had never seen my friend's face so grim or his brow so dark as it was when we turned from the scene of this investigation.
"It is very essential, Miss Stoner," said he, "that you should absolutely follow my advice in every respect."
"I shall most certainly do so."
"I assure you that I am in your hands."
"In the first place, both my friend and I must spend the night in your room."
Both Miss Stoner and I gazed at him in astonishment.
"Yes, that is the Crown."
"The rest you will leave in our hands."
"We shall spend the night in your room, and we shall investigate the cause of this noise which has disturbed you."
"I believe, Mr. Holmes, that you have already made up your mind," said Miss Stoner, laying her hand upon my companion's sleeve.
"Then, for pity's sake, tell me what was the cause of my sister's death."
"I should prefer to have clearer proofs before I speak."
"You can at least tell me whether my own thought is correct, and if she died from some sudden fright."
I think that there was probably some more tangible cause.
And now, Miss Stoner, we must leave you for if Dr. Roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain.
Sherlock Holmes and I had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom and sitting-room at the Crown Inn.
At dusk we saw Dr. Grimesby Roylott drive past, his huge form looming up beside the little figure of the lad who drove him.
"Can I be of assistance?"
"Your presence might be invaluable."
"Then I shall certainly come."
"It is very kind of you."
"I saw nothing remarkable save the bell-rope, and what purpose that could answer I confess is more than I can imagine."
"You saw the ventilator, too?"
"I knew that we should find a ventilator before ever we came to Stoke Moran."
You remember in her statement she said that her sister could smell Dr. Roylott's cigar.
Now, of course that suggested at once that there must be a communication between the two rooms.
It could only be a small one, or it would have been remarked upon at the coroner's inquiry.
"But what harm can there be in that?"
A ventilator is made, a cord is hung, and a lady who sleeps in the bed dies.
"I cannot as yet see any connection."
"Did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed?"
"I cannot say that I have."
When a doctor does go wrong he is the first of criminals.
He has nerve and he has knowledge.
Palmer and Pritchard were among the heads of their profession.
This man strikes even deeper, but I think, Watson, that we shall be able to strike deeper still.
About nine o'clock the light among the trees was extinguished, and all was dark in the direction of the Manor House.
Two hours passed slowly away, and then, suddenly, just at the stroke of eleven, a single bright light shone out right in front of us.
"That is our signal," said Holmes, springing to his feet; "it comes from the middle window."
There was little difficulty in entering the grounds, for unrepaired breaches gaped in the old park wall.
I whispered; "did you see it?"
Holmes was for the moment as startled as I.
His hand closed like a vice upon my wrist in his agitation.
Then he broke into a low laugh and put his lips to my ear.
"It is a nice household," he murmured.
I had forgotten the strange pets which the Doctor affected.
There was a cheetah, too; perhaps we might find it upon our shoulders at any moment.
I confess that I felt easier in my mind when, after following Holmes' example and slipping off my shoes, I found myself inside the bedroom.
My companion noiselessly closed the shutters, moved the lamp onto the table, and cast his eyes round the room.
All was as we had seen it in the daytime.
"The least sound would be fatal to our plans."
I nodded to show that I had heard.
Have your pistol ready in case we should need it.
I took out my revolver and laid it on the corner of the table.
Holmes had brought up a long thin cane, and this he placed upon the bed beside him.
By it he laid the box of matches and the stump of a candle.
Then he turned down the lamp, and we were left in darkness.
How shall I ever forget that dreadful vigil?
The shutters cut off the least ray of light, and we waited in absolute darkness.
Far away we could hear the deep tones of the parish clock, which boomed out every quarter of an hour.
How long they seemed, those quarters!
Twelve struck, and one and two and three, and still we sat waiting silently for whatever might befall.
Someone in the next room had lit a dark-lantern.
I heard a gentle sound of movement, and then all was silent once more, though the smell grew stronger.
For half an hour I sat with straining ears.
Then suddenly another sound became audible--a very gentle, soothing sound, like that of a small jet of steam escaping continually from a kettle.
The instant that we heard it, Holmes sprang from the bed, struck a match, and lashed furiously with his cane at the bell-pull.
"You see it, Watson?" he yelled.
I could, however, see that his face was deadly pale and filled with horror and loathing.
It swelled up louder and louder, a hoarse yell of pain and fear and anger all mingled in the one dreadful shriek.
They say that away down in the village, and even in the distant parsonage, that cry raised the sleepers from their beds.
"It means that it is all over," Holmes answered.
With a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the corridor.
Twice he struck at the chamber door without any reply from within.
Then he turned the handle and entered, I at his heels, with the cocked pistol in my hand.
It was a singular sight which met our eyes.
On the table stood a dark-lantern with the shutter half open, throwing a brilliant beam of light upon the iron safe, the door of which was ajar.
Across his lap lay the short stock with the long lash which we had noticed during the day.
His chin was cocked upward and his eyes were fixed in a dreadful, rigid stare at the corner of the ceiling.
Round his brow he had a peculiar yellow band, with brownish speckles, which seemed to be bound tightly round his head.
As we entered he made neither sound nor motion.
"The band! the speckled band!" whispered Holmes.
In an instant his strange headgear began to move, and there reared itself from among his hair the squat diamond-shaped head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent.
He has died within ten seconds of being bitten.
Violence does, in truth, recoil upon the violent, and the schemer falls into the pit which he digs for another.
Such are the true facts of the death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott, of Stoke Moran.
The little which I had yet to learn of the case was told me by Sherlock Holmes as we travelled back next day.
My attention was speedily drawn, as I have already remarked to you, to this ventilator, and to the bell-rope which hung down to the bed.
The rapidity with which such a poison would take effect would also, from his point of view, be an advantage.
It would be a sharp-eyed coroner, indeed, who could distinguish the two little dark punctures which would show where the poison fangs had done their work.
Then I thought of the whistle.
Of course he must recall the snake before the morning light revealed it to the victim.
He had trained it, probably by the use of the milk which we saw, to return to him when summoned.
It might or might not bite the occupant, perhaps she might escape every night for a week, but sooner or later she must fall a victim.
The sight of the safe, the saucer of milk, and the loop of whipcord were enough to finally dispel any doubts which may have remained.
The metallic clang heard by Miss Stoner was obviously caused by her stepfather hastily closing the door of his safe upon its terrible occupant.
Having once made up my mind, you know the steps which I took in order to put the matter to the proof.
"With the result of driving it through the ventilator."
Some of the blows of my cane came home and roused its snakish temper, so that it flew upon the first person it saw.
At the time the circumstances made a deep impression upon me, and the lapse of two years has hardly served to weaken the effect.
It was in the summer of '89, not long after my marriage, that the events occurred which I am now about to summarise.
My practice had steadily increased, and as I happened to live at no very great distance from Paddington Station, I got a few patients from among the officials.
I dressed hurriedly, for I knew by experience that railway cases were seldom trivial, and hastened downstairs.
As I descended, my old ally, the guard, came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him.
"I've got him here," he whispered, jerking his thumb over his shoulder; "he's all right."
I asked, for his manner suggested that it was some strange creature which he had caged up in my room.
"It's a new patient," he whispered.
There he is, all safe and sound.
And off he went, this trusty tout, without even giving me time to thank him.
I entered my consulting-room and found a gentleman seated by the table.
He was quietly dressed in a suit of heather tweed with a soft cloth cap which he had laid down upon my books.
Round one of his hands he had a handkerchief wrapped, which was mottled all over with bloodstains.
I came in by train this morning, and on inquiring at Paddington as to where I might find a doctor, a worthy fellow very kindly escorted me here.
I took it up and glanced at it.
"Mr. Victor Hatherley, hydraulic engineer, 16A, Victoria Street (3rd floor)."
That was the name, style, and abode of my morning visitor.
"I regret that I have kept you waiting," said I, sitting down in my library-chair.
"You are fresh from a night journey, I understand, which is in itself a monotonous occupation."
"Oh, my night could not be called monotonous," said he, and laughed.
He laughed very heartily, with a high, ringing note, leaning back in his chair and shaking his sides.
All my medical instincts rose up against that laugh.
I cried; "pull yourself together!" and I poured out some water from a caraffe.
He was off in one of those hysterical outbursts which come upon a strong nature when some great crisis is over and gone.
Presently he came to himself once more, very weary and pale-looking.
"I have been making a fool of myself," he gasped.
I dashed some brandy into the water, and the colour began to come back to his bloodless cheeks.
"And now, Doctor, perhaps you would kindly attend to my thumb, or rather to the place where my thumb used to be."
He unwound the handkerchief and held out his hand.
It gave even my hardened nerves a shudder to look at it.
There were four protruding fingers and a horrid red, spongy surface where the thumb should have been.
It had been hacked or torn right out from the roots.
I fainted when it was done, and I think that I must have been senseless for a long time.
"It is a question of hydraulics, you see, and came within my own province."
"This has been done," said I, examining the wound, "by a very heavy and sharp instrument."
"A thing like a cleaver," said he.
I sponged the wound, cleaned it, dressed it, and finally covered it over with cotton wadding and carbolised bandages.
He lay back without wincing, though he bit his lip from time to time.
I asked when I had finished.
Between your brandy and your bandage, I feel a new man.
"I should be immensely obliged to you."
We shall just be in time to have a little breakfast with him.
"Yes; I shall not feel easy until I have told my story."
"Then my servant will call a cab, and I shall be with you in an instant."
I rushed upstairs, explained the matter shortly to my wife, and in five minutes was inside a hansom, driving with my new acquaintance to Baker Street.
He received us in his quietly genial fashion, ordered fresh rashers and eggs, and joined us in a hearty meal.
"It is easy to see that your experience has been no common one, Mr. Hatherley," said he.
To me it has been exceptionally so.
During two years I have had three consultations and one small job, and that is absolutely all that my profession has brought me.
My gross takings amount to £ 27 10s.
He brought up a card, too, with the name of 'Colonel Lysander Stark' engraved upon it.
Close at his heels came the colonel himself, a man rather over the middle size, but of an exceeding thinness.
I do not think that I have ever seen so thin a man.
His whole face sharpened away into nose and chin, and the skin of his cheeks was drawn quite tense over his outstanding bones.
Yet this emaciation seemed to be his natural habit, and due to no disease, for his eye was bright, his step brisk, and his bearing assured.
He was plainly but neatly dressed, and his age, I should judge, would be nearer forty than thirty.
'May I ask who it was who gave me so good a character?'
I have it from the same source that you are both an orphan and a bachelor and are residing alone in London.'
I understand that it was on a professional matter that you wished to speak to me?'
But you will find that all I say is really to the point.
No reference to the matter at all, either in word or writing?'
He suddenly sprang up, and darting like lightning across the room he flung open the door.
The passage outside was empty.
'I know that clerks are sometimes curious as to their master's affairs.
Now we can talk in safety.'
He drew up his chair very close to mine and began to stare at me again with the same questioning and thoughtful look.
Even my dread of losing a client could not restrain me from showing my impatience.
Heaven forgive me for that last sentence, but the words came to my lips.
I simply want your opinion about a hydraulic stamping machine which has got out of gear.
If you show us what is wrong we shall soon set it right ourselves.
What do you think of such a commission as that?'
We shall want you to come to-night by the last train.'
It is a little place near the borders of Oxfordshire, and within seven miles of Reading.
There is a train from Paddington which would bring you there at about 11:15.'
It is a good seven miles from Eyford Station.'
I suppose there would be no chance of a train back.
I should be compelled to stop the night.'
Could I not come at some more convenient hour?'
Still, of course, if you would like to draw out of the business, there is plenty of time to do so.'
'Not at all,' said I, 'I shall be very happy to accommodate myself to your wishes.
I should like, however, to understand a little more clearly what it is that you wish me to do.'
It is very natural that the pledge of secrecy which we have exacted from you should have aroused your curiosity.
I have no wish to commit you to anything without your having it all laid before you.
I suppose that we are absolutely safe from eavesdroppers?'
You are probably aware that fuller's-earth is a valuable product, and that it is only found in one or two places in England?'
I was fortunate enough to discover that there was a deposit of fuller's-earth in one of my fields.
These good people were absolutely ignorant that their land contained that which was quite as valuable as a gold-mine.
Naturally, it was to my interest to buy their land before they discovered its true value, but unfortunately I had no capital by which I could do this.
This we have now been doing for some time, and in order to help us in our operations we erected a hydraulic press.
This press, as I have already explained, has got out of order, and we wish your advice upon the subject.
That is why I have made you promise me that you will not tell a human being that you are going to Eyford to-night.
I hope that I make it all plain?'
We compress the earth into bricks, so as to remove them without revealing what they are.
But that is a mere detail.
I have taken you fully into my confidence now, Mr. Hatherley, and I have shown you how I trust you.'
'I shall expect you, then, at Eyford at 11:15.'
He looked at me with a last long, questioning gaze, and then, pressing my hand in a cold, dank grasp, he hurried from the room.
However, I was in time for the last train to Eyford, and I reached the little dim-lit station after eleven o'clock.
I was the only passenger who got out there, and there was no one upon the platform save a single sleepy porter with a lantern.
As I passed out through the wicket gate, however, I found my acquaintance of the morning waiting in the shadow upon the other side.
Without a word he grasped my arm and hurried me into a carriage, the door of which was standing open.
"Did you observe the colour?"
I am sorry to have interrupted you.
The country roads seem to be not very good in that part of the world, for we lurched and jolted terribly.
Now and then I hazarded some remark to break the monotony of the journey, but the colonel answered only in monosyllables, and the conversation soon flagged.
At last, however, the bumping of the road was exchanged for the crisp smoothness of a gravel-drive, and the carriage came to a stand.
Colonel Lysander Stark sprang out, and, as I followed after him, pulled me swiftly into a porch which gaped in front of us.
The instant that I had crossed the threshold the door slammed heavily behind us, and I heard faintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage drove away.
Suddenly a door opened at the other end of the passage, and a long, golden bar of light shot out in our direction.
It grew broader, and a woman appeared with a lamp in her hand, which she held above her head, pushing her face forward and peering at us.
I could see that she was pretty, and from the gloss with which the light shone upon her dark dress I knew that it was a rich material.
It was a quiet, little, plainly furnished room, with a round table in the centre, on which several German books were scattered.
Colonel Stark laid down the lamp on the top of a harmonium beside the door.
'I shall not keep you waiting an instant,' said he, and vanished into the darkness.
Then I walked across to the window, hoping that I might catch some glimpse of the country-side, but an oak shutter, heavily barred, was folded across it.
It was a wonderfully silent house.
There was an old clock ticking loudly somewhere in the passage, but otherwise everything was deadly still.
A vague feeling of uneasiness began to steal over me.
Who were these German people, and what were they doing living in this strange, out-of-the-way place?
I was ten miles or so from Eyford, that was all I knew, but whether north, south, east, or west I had no idea.
For that matter, Reading, and possibly other large towns, were within that radius, so the place might not be so secluded, after all.
Yet it was quite certain, from the absolute stillness, that we were in the country.
I paced up and down the room, humming a tune under my breath to keep up my spirits and feeling that I was thoroughly earning my fifty-guinea fee.
The woman was standing in the aperture, the darkness of the hall behind her, the yellow light from my lamp beating upon her eager and beautiful face.
I could see at a glance that she was sick with fear, and the sight sent a chill to my own heart.
There is no good for you to do.'
I cannot possibly leave until I have seen the machine.'
'You can pass through the door; no one hinders.'
And then, seeing that I smiled and shook my head, she suddenly threw aside her constraint and made a step forward, with her hands wrung together.
'For the love of Heaven!' she whispered, 'get away from here before it is too late!'
I thought of my fifty-guinea fee, of my wearisome journey, and of the unpleasant night which seemed to be before me.
Was it all to go for nothing?
Why should I slink away without having carried out my commission, and without the payment which was my due?
This woman might, for all I knew, be a monomaniac.
She was about to renew her entreaties when a door slammed overhead, and the sound of several footsteps was heard upon the stairs.
She listened for an instant, threw up her hands with a despairing gesture, and vanished as suddenly and as noiselessly as she had come.
'By the way, I was under the impression that I left this door shut just now.
I fear that you have felt the draught.'
'Perhaps we had better proceed to business, then,' said he.
'Mr. Ferguson and I will take you up to see the machine.'
This is only where we compress it.
All we wish you to do is to examine the machine and to let us know what is wrong with it.'
Ferguson appeared to be a morose and silent man, but I could see from the little that he said that he was at least a fellow-countryman.
Within was a small, square room, in which the three of us could hardly get at one time.
Ferguson remained outside, and the colonel ushered me in.
The ceiling of this small chamber is really the end of the descending piston, and it comes down with the force of many tons upon this metal floor.
There are small lateral columns of water outside which receive the force, and which transmit and multiply it in the manner which is familiar to you.
The machine goes readily enough, but there is some stiffness in the working of it, and it has lost a little of its force.
Perhaps you will have the goodness to look it over and to show us how we can set it right.'
It was indeed a gigantic one, and capable of exercising enormous pressure.
His face set hard, and a baleful light sprang up in his grey eyes.
He took a step backward, slammed the little door, and turned the key in the lock.
I rushed towards it and pulled at the handle, but it was quite secure, and did not give in the least to my kicks and shoves.
It was the clank of the levers and the swish of the leaking cylinder.
He had set the engine at work.
The lamp still stood upon the floor where I had placed it when examining the trough.
I threw myself, screaming, against the door, and dragged with my nails at the lock.
I implored the colonel to let me out, but the remorseless clanking of the levers drowned my cries.
The ceiling was only a foot or two above my head, and with my hand upraised I could feel its hard, rough surface.
Then it flashed through my mind that the pain of my death would depend very much upon the position in which I met it.
If I lay on my face the weight would come upon my spine, and I shuddered to think of that dreadful snap.
Easier the other way, perhaps; and yet, had I the nerve to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow wavering down upon me?
Already I was unable to stand erect, when my eye caught something which brought a gush of hope back to my heart.
For an instant I could hardly believe that here was indeed a door which led away from death.
The next instant I threw myself through, and lay half-fainting upon the other side.
It was the same good friend whose warning I had so foolishly rejected.
'They will be here in a moment.
They will see that you are not there.
Oh, do not waste the so-precious time, but come!'
I staggered to my feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a winding stair.
My guide stopped and looked about her like one who is at her wit's end.
Then she threw open a door which led into a bedroom, through the window of which the moon was shining brightly.
'It is high, but it may be that you can jump it.'
I rushed across the bedroom, flung open the window, and looked out.
How quiet and sweet and wholesome the garden looked in the moonlight, and it could not be more than thirty feet down.
I clambered out upon the sill, but I hesitated to jump until I should have heard what passed between my saviour and the ruffian who pursued me.
If she were ill-used, then at any risks I was determined to go back to her assistance.
Fritz!' she cried in English, 'remember your promise after the last time.
You said it should not be again.
'You will be the ruin of us.
He dashed her to one side, and, rushing to the window, cut at me with his heavy weapon.
I had let myself go, and was hanging by the hands to the sill, when his blow fell.
I was conscious of a dull pain, my grip loosened, and I fell into the garden below.
Suddenly, however, as I ran, a deadly dizziness and sickness came over me.
It must have been a very long time, for the moon had sunk, and a bright morning was breaking when I came to myself.
My clothes were all sodden with dew, and my coat-sleeve was drenched with blood from my wounded thumb.
But to my astonishment, when I came to look round me, neither house nor garden were to be seen.
Were it not for the ugly wound upon my hand, all that had passed during those dreadful hours might have been an evil dream.
There would be one to Reading in less than an hour.
The same porter was on duty, I found, as had been there when I arrived.
I inquired of him whether he had ever heard of Colonel Lysander Stark.
The name was strange to him.
Had he observed a carriage the night before waiting for me?
Was there a police-station anywhere near?
There was one about three miles off.
I determined to wait until I got back to town before telling my story to the police.
We both sat in silence for some little time after listening to this extraordinary narrative.
Then Sherlock Holmes pulled down from the shelf one of the ponderous commonplace books in which he placed his cuttings.
"Here is an advertisement which will interest you," said he.
Listen to this: 'Lost, on the 9th inst., Mr. Jeremiah Hayling, aged twenty-six, a hydraulic engineer.
Left his lodgings at ten o'clock at night, and has not been heard of since.
Was dressed in,' etc., etc. Ha!
"Good heavens!" cried my patient.
"Then that explains what the girl said."
Some three hours or so afterwards we were all in the train together, bound from Reading to the little Berkshire village.
There were Sherlock Holmes, the hydraulic engineer, Inspector Bradstreet, of Scotland Yard, a plain-clothes man, and myself.
Bradstreet had spread an ordnance map of the county out upon the seat and was busy with his compasses drawing a circle with Eyford for its centre.
"There you are," said he.
The place we want must be somewhere near that line.
"It was an hour's good drive."
"And you think that they brought you back all that way when you were unconscious?"
"Oh, we shall soon clear up all that," said Bradstreet.
"I think I could lay my finger on it," said Holmes quietly.
Come, now, we shall see who agrees with you.
"And I say east," said my patient.
"I am for west," remarked the plain-clothes man.
"There are several quiet little villages up there."
"And I am for north," said I, "because there are no hills there, and our friend says that he did not notice the carriage go up any."
We have boxed the compass among us.
He placed his finger in the centre of the circle.
"This is where we shall find them."
"But the twelve-mile drive?" gasped Hatherley.
You say yourself that the horse was fresh and glossy when you got in.
"Indeed, it is a likely ruse enough," observed Bradstreet thoughtfully.
"Of course there can be no doubt as to the nature of this gang."
"None at all," said Holmes.
"They are coiners on a large scale, and have used the machine to form the amalgam which has taken the place of silver."
"We have known for some time that a clever gang was at work," said the inspector.
But the inspector was mistaken, for those criminals were not destined to fall into the hands of justice.
"A house on fire?" asked Bradstreet as the train steamed off again on its way.
"Yes, sir!" said the station-master.
"I hear that it was during the night, sir, but it has got worse, and the whole place is in a blaze."
"Tell me," broke in the engineer, "is Dr. Becher a German, very thin, with a long, sharp nose?"
The station-master had not finished his speech before we were all hastening in the direction of the fire.
"That's it!" cried Hatherley, in intense excitement.
He had evidently been carried down by two persons, one of whom had remarkably small feet and the other unusually large ones.
The Lord St. Simon marriage, and its curious termination, have long ceased to be a subject of interest in those exalted circles in which the unfortunate bridegroom moves.
Fresh scandals have eclipsed it, and their more piquant details have drawn the gossips away from this four-year-old drama.
"Here is a very fashionable epistle," I remarked as he entered.
"Your morning letters, if I remember right, were from a fish-monger and a tide-waiter."
He broke the seal and glanced over the contents.
"Oh, come, it may prove to be something of interest, after all."
"And from a noble client?"
"One of the highest in England."
"My dear fellow, I congratulate you."
It is just possible, however, that that also may not be wanting in this new investigation.
"It looks like it," said I ruefully, pointing to a huge bundle in the corner.
"I have had nothing else to do."
I read nothing except the criminal news and the agony column.
The latter is always instructive.
"Oh, yes, with the deepest interest."
The letter which I hold in my hand is from Lord St. Simon.
I will read it to you, and in return you must turn over these papers and let me have whatever bears upon the matter.
SHERLOCK HOLMES,--Lord Backwater tells me that I may place implicit reliance upon your judgment and discretion.
I have determined, therefore, to call upon you and to consult you in reference to the very painful event which has occurred in connection with my wedding.
He picked a red-covered volume from a line of books of reference beside the mantelpiece.
"Here he is," said he, sitting down and flattening it out upon his knee.
'Arms: Azure, three caltrops in chief over a fess sable.
He's forty-one years of age, which is mature for marriage.
Was Under-Secretary for the colonies in a late administration.
The Duke, his father, was at one time Secretary for Foreign Affairs.
They inherit Plantagenet blood by direct descent, and Tudor on the distaff side.
Well, there is nothing very instructive in all this.
That is quite cleared up now--though, indeed, it was obvious from the first.
Esq., of San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.'
"Terse and to the point," remarked Holmes, stretching his long, thin legs towards the fire.
One by one the management of the noble houses of Great Britain is passing into the hands of our fair cousins from across the Atlantic.
An important addition has been made during the last week to the list of the prizes which have been borne away by these charming invaders.
"Anything else?" asked Holmes, yawning.
"Before the what?" asked Holmes with a start.
"The vanishing of the lady."
"When did she vanish, then?"
"Yes; it struck me as being a little out of the common."
"I warn you that they are very incomplete."
"Perhaps we may make them less so."
The whole party proceeded afterwards to the house of Mr. Aloysius Doran, at Lancaster Gate, where breakfast had been prepared.
It was only after a painful and prolonged scene that she was ejected by the butler and the footman.
Up to a late hour last night, however, nothing had transpired as to the whereabouts of the missing lady.
"Only one little item in another of the morning papers, but it is a suggestive one."
It appears that she was formerly a danseuse at the Allegro, and that she has known the bridegroom for some years.
I would not have missed it for worlds.
"Lord Robert St. Simon," announced our page-boy, throwing open the door.
His hair, too, as he swept off his very curly-brimmed hat, was grizzled round the edges and thin upon the top.
He advanced slowly into the room, turning his head from left to right, and swinging in his right hand the cord which held his golden eyeglasses.
"Good-day, Lord St. Simon," said Holmes, rising and bowing.
This is my friend and colleague, Dr. Watson.
I have been cut to the quick.
"My last client of the sort was a king."
"You can understand," said Holmes suavely, "that I extend to the affairs of my other clients the same secrecy which I promise to you in yours."
I have already learned all that is in the public prints, nothing more.
Lord St. Simon glanced over it.
"Yes, it is correct, as far as it goes."
"When did you first meet Miss Hatty Doran?"
"In San Francisco, a year ago."
"You were travelling in the States?"
"Did you become engaged then?"
"But you were on a friendly footing?"
"I was amused by her society, and she could see that I was amused."
"Her father is very rich?"
"He is said to be the richest man on the Pacific slope."
"And how did he make his money?"
He had nothing a few years ago.
"Now, what is your own impression as to the young lady's--your wife's character?"
The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the fire.
She is what we call in England a tomboy, with a strong nature, wild and free, unfettered by any sort of traditions.
She is impetuous--volcanic, I was about to say.
She is swift in making up her mind and fearless in carrying out her resolutions.
"I brought this with me."
He opened a locket and showed us the full face of a very lovely woman.
Holmes gazed long and earnestly at it.
Then he closed the locket and handed it back to Lord St. Simon.
"The young lady came to London, then, and you renewed your acquaintance?"
"She brought, I understand, a considerable dowry?"
"And this, of course, remains to you, since the marriage is a _fait accompli_?"
"I really have made no inquiries on the subject."
"Was she in good spirits?"
"She was as bright as possible--at least until after the ceremony."
"And did you observe any change in her then?"
"Pray let us have it, for all that."
She dropped her bouquet as we went towards the vestry.
She was passing the front pew at the time, and it fell over into the pew.
You say that there was a gentleman in the pew.
"This gentleman was not one of your wife's friends?"
I hardly noticed his appearance.
"I saw her in conversation with her maid."
It seemed to me that her mistress allowed her to take great liberties.
"How long did she speak to this Alice?"
"You did not overhear what they said?"
She was accustomed to use slang of the kind.
"She walked into the breakfast-room."
She was very independent in little matters like that.
Then, after we had sat down for ten minutes or so, she rose hurriedly, muttered some words of apology, and left the room.
Lord St. Simon shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows.
She used to be at the Allegro.
I have not treated her ungenerously, and she had no just cause of complaint against me, but you know what women are, Mr. Holmes.
Flora was a dear little thing, but exceedingly hot-headed and devotedly attached to me.
"Did your wife hear all this?"
"No, thank goodness, she did not."
"And she was seen walking with this very woman afterwards?"
That is what Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, looks upon as so serious.
"Well, it is a possible supposition."
"I do not think Flora would hurt a fly."
I have given you all the facts.
"In short, that she had become suddenly deranged?"
"Well, certainly that is also a conceivable hypothesis," said Holmes, smiling.
"We could see the other side of the road and the Park."
Then I do not think that I need to detain you longer.
"Should you be fortunate enough to solve this problem," said our client, rising.
"I say that I have solved it."
"Where, then, is my wife?"
"That is a detail which I shall speedily supply."
Lord St. Simon shook his head.
"I am afraid that it will take wiser heads than yours or mine," he remarked, and bowing in a stately, old-fashioned manner he departed.
"It is very good of Lord St. Simon to honour my head by putting it on a level with his own," said Sherlock Holmes, laughing.
My whole examination served to turn my conjecture into a certainty.
"But I have heard all that you have heard."
There was a parallel instance in Aberdeen some years back, and something on very much the same lines at Munich the year after the Franco-Prussian War.
It is one of these cases--but, hullo, here is Lestrade!
The official detective was attired in a pea-jacket and cravat, which gave him a decidedly nautical appearance, and he carried a black canvas bag in his hand.
With a short greeting he seated himself and lit the cigar which had been offered to him.
"What's up, then?" asked Holmes with a twinkle in his eye.
It is this infernal St. Simon marriage case.
Every clue seems to slip through my fingers.
"And very wet it seems to have made you," said Holmes laying his hand upon the arm of the pea-jacket.
"Yes, I have been dragging the Serpentine."
"In Heaven's name, what for?"
"In search of the body of Lady St. Simon."
Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily.
"Have you dragged the basin of Trafalgar Square fountain?" he asked.
"Because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady in the one as in the other."
Lestrade shot an angry glance at my companion.
"I suppose you know all about it," he snarled.
"Well, I have only just heard the facts, but my mind is made up."
"I think it very unlikely."
"Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found this in it?"
"There," said he, putting a new wedding-ring upon the top of the pile.
"There is a little nut for you to crack, Master Holmes."
"Oh, indeed!" said my friend, blowing blue rings into the air.
"You dragged them from the Serpentine?"
"At some evidence implicating Flora Millar in the disappearance."
"I am afraid that you will find it difficult."
"Are you, indeed, now?" cried Lestrade with some bitterness.
You have made two blunders in as many minutes.
In the pocket is a card-case.
In the card-case is a note.
He slapped it down upon the table in front of him.
"Very good, Lestrade," said Holmes, laughing.
He took up the paper in a listless way, but his attention instantly became riveted, and he gave a little cry of satisfaction.
"This is indeed important," said he.
Lestrade rose in his triumph and bent his head to look.
"Why," he shrieked, "you're looking at the wrong side!"
"On the contrary, this is the right side."
"And over here is what appears to be the fragment of a hotel bill, which interests me deeply."
It is most important, all the same.
"I've wasted time enough," said Lestrade, rising.
He gathered up the garments, thrust them into the bag, and made for the door.
Lady St. Simon is a myth.
Lestrade looked sadly at my companion.
Then he turned to me, tapped his forehead three times, shook his head solemnly, and hurried away.
He had hardly shut the door behind him when Holmes rose to put on his overcoat.
"There is something in what the fellow says about outdoor work," he remarked, "so I think, Watson, that I must leave you to your papers for a little."
There were a couple of brace of cold woodcock, a pheasant, a pâté de foie gras pie with a group of ancient and cobwebby bottles.
Just before nine o'clock Sherlock Holmes stepped briskly into the room.
His features were gravely set, but there was a light in his eye which made me think that he had not been disappointed in his conclusions.
"They have laid the supper, then," he said, rubbing his hands.
"Yes, I fancy we may have some company dropping in," said he.
"My messenger reached you, then?" asked Holmes.
Lord St. Simon sank into a chair and passed his hand over his forehead.
"What will the Duke say," he murmured, "when he hears that one of the family has been subjected to such humiliation?"
"Ah, you look on these things from another standpoint."
I can hardly see how the lady could have acted otherwise, though her abrupt method of doing it was undoubtedly to be regretted.
"It was a slight, sir, a public slight," said Lord St. Simon, tapping his fingers upon the table.
"You must make allowance for this poor girl, placed in so unprecedented a position."
"I think that I heard a ring," said Holmes.
He opened the door and ushered in a lady and gentleman.
The lady had taken a quick step forward and had held out her hand to him, but he still refused to raise his eyes.
It was as well for his resolution, perhaps, for her pleading face was one which it was hard to resist.
"You're angry, Robert," said she.
"Well, I guess you have every cause to be."
"Pray make no apology to me," said Lord St. Simon bitterly.
"Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend and me to leave the room while you explain this matter?"
He was a small, wiry, sunburnt man, clean-shaven, with a sharp face and alert manner.
"Then I'll tell our story right away," said the lady.
The richer Pa grew the poorer was Frank; so at last Pa wouldn't hear of our engagement lasting any longer, and he took me away to 'Frisco.
Frank wouldn't throw up his hand, though; so he followed me there, and he saw me without Pa knowing anything about it.
It would only have made him mad to know, so we just fixed it all up for ourselves.
Frank said that he would go and make his pile, too, and never come back to claim me until he had as much as Pa.
So then I promised to wait for him to the end of time and pledged myself not to marry anyone else while he lived.
After that came a long newspaper story about how a miners' camp had been attacked by Apache Indians, and there was my Frank's name among the killed.
I fainted dead away, and I was very sick for months after.
Pa thought I had a decline and took me to half the doctors in 'Frisco.
Not a word of news came for a year and more, so that I never doubted that Frank was really dead.
We can't command our love, but we can our actions.
I went to the altar with him with the intention to make him just as good a wife as it was in me to be.
I know that everything was turning round, and the words of the clergyman were just like the buzz of a bee in my ear.
I didn't know what to do.
Should I stop the service and make a scene in the church?
I glanced at him again, and he seemed to know what I was thinking, for he raised his finger to his lips to tell me to be still.
Then I saw him scribble on a piece of paper, and I knew that he was writing me a note.
It was only a line asking me to join him when he made the sign to me to do so.
Of course I never doubted for a moment that my first duty was now to him, and I determined to do just whatever he might direct.
I ordered her to say nothing, but to get a few things packed and my ulster ready.
I know I ought to have spoken to Lord St. Simon, but it was dreadful hard before his mother and all those great people.
I just made up my mind to run away and explain afterwards.
I hadn't been at the table ten minutes before I saw Frank out of the window at the other side of the road.
He beckoned to me and then began walking into the Park.
I slipped out, put on my things, and followed him.
"I saw it in a paper," explained the American.
"It gave the name and the church but not where the lady lived."
It was awful to me to think of all those lords and ladies sitting round that breakfast-table and waiting for me to come back.
Then he offered to give us a chance of talking to Lord St. Simon alone, and so we came right away round to his rooms at once.
Lord St. Simon had by no means relaxed his rigid attitude, but had listened with a frowning brow and a compressed lip to this long narrative.
"Excuse me," he said, "but it is not my custom to discuss my most intimate personal affairs in this public manner."
"Oh, certainly, if it would give you any pleasure."
He put out his hand and coldly grasped that which she extended to him.
"I had hoped," suggested Holmes, "that you would have joined us in a friendly supper."
"I think that there you ask a little too much," responded his Lordship.
He included us all in a sweeping bow and stalked out of the room.
"Then I trust that you at least will honour me with your company," said Sherlock Holmes.
"You were not yourself at fault at all, then?"
Obviously something had occurred during the morning, then, to cause her to change her mind.
What could that something be?
She could not have spoken to anyone when she was out, for she had been in the company of the bridegroom.
Had she seen someone, then?
You see we have already arrived, by a process of exclusion, at the idea that she might have seen an American.
Then who could this American be, and why should he possess so much influence over her?
It might be a lover; it might be a husband.
Her young womanhood had, I knew, been spent in rough scenes and under strange conditions.
So far I had got before I ever heard Lord St. Simon's narrative.
"And how in the world did you find them?"
"How did you deduce the select?"
Eight shillings for a bed and eightpence for a glass of sherry pointed to one of the most expensive hotels.
There are not many in London which charge at that rate.
In the second one which I visited in Northumberland Avenue, I learned by an inspection of the book that Francis H.
"But with no very good result," I remarked.
"His conduct was certainly not very gracious."
I think that we may judge Lord St. Simon very mercifully and thank our stars that we are never likely to find ourselves in the same position.
My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands in the pockets of his dressing-gown, looking over my shoulder.
It was a bright, crisp February morning, and the snow of the day before still lay deep upon the ground, shimmering brightly in the wintry sun.
The grey pavement had been cleaned and scraped, but was still dangerously slippery, so that there were fewer passengers than usual.
Indeed, from the direction of the Metropolitan Station no one was coming save the single gentleman whose eccentric conduct had drawn my attention.
He was a man of about fifty, tall, portly, and imposing, with a massive, strongly marked face and a commanding figure.
He was dressed in a sombre yet rich style, in black frock-coat, shining hat, neat brown gaiters, and well-cut pearl-grey trousers.
As he ran he jerked his hands up and down, waggled his head, and writhed his face into the most extraordinary contortions.
"What on earth can be the matter with him?"
"He is looking up at the numbers of the houses."
"I believe that he is coming here," said Holmes, rubbing his hands.
I think that I recognise the symptoms.
As he spoke, the man, puffing and blowing, rushed at our door and pulled at our bell until the whole house resounded with the clanging.
"You have come to me to tell your story, have you not?" said he.
The man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest, fighting against his emotion.
Then he passed his handkerchief over his brow, set his lips tight, and turned his face towards us.
"No doubt you think me mad?" said he.
"I see that you have had some great trouble," responded Holmes.
Public disgrace I might have faced, although I am a man whose character has never yet borne a stain.
Private affliction also is the lot of every man; but the two coming together, and in so frightful a form, have been enough to shake my very soul.
Besides, it is not I alone.
"Pray compose yourself, sir," said Holmes, "and let me have a clear account of who you are and what it is that has befallen you."
The name was indeed well known to us as belonging to the senior partner in the second largest private banking concern in the City of London.
What could have happened, then, to bring one of the foremost citizens of London to this most pitiable pass?
We waited, all curiosity, until with another effort he braced himself to tell his story.
I came to Baker Street by the Underground and hurried from there on foot, for the cabs go slowly through this snow.
That is why I was so out of breath, for I am a man who takes very little exercise.
I feel better now, and I will put the facts before you as shortly and yet as clearly as I can.
One of our most lucrative means of laying out money is in the shape of loans, where the security is unimpeachable.
In my position you can readily understand that it is unwise to place one's self under obligations.'
But it is very essential to me that the money should be paid at once.'
'You have doubtless heard of the Beryl Coronet?'
He opened the case, and there, imbedded in soft, flesh-coloured velvet, lay the magnificent piece of jewellery which he had named.
'There are thirty-nine enormous beryls,' said he, 'and the price of the gold chasing is incalculable.
The lowest estimate would put the worth of the coronet at double the sum which I have asked.
I am prepared to leave it with you as my security.'
You may set your mind at rest about that.
I should not dream of doing so were it not absolutely certain that I should be able in four days to reclaim it.
It is a pure matter of form.
I leave it with you, however, with every confidence, and I shall call for it in person on Monday morning.'
There could be no doubt that, as it was a national possession, a horrible scandal would ensue if any misfortune should occur to it.
I already regretted having ever consented to take charge of it.
However, it was too late to alter the matter now, so I locked it up in my private safe and turned once more to my work.
Bankers' safes had been forced before now, and why should not mine be?
If so, how terrible would be the position in which I should find myself!
With this intention, I called a cab and drove out to my house at Streatham, carrying the jewel with me.
I did not breathe freely until I had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau of my dressing-room.
My groom and my page sleep out of the house, and may be set aside altogether.
I have three maid-servants who have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability is quite above suspicion.
Another, Lucy Parr, the second waiting-maid, has only been in my service a few months.
She came with an excellent character, however, and has always given me satisfaction.
She is a very pretty girl and has attracted admirers who have occasionally hung about the place.
That is the only drawback which we have found to her, but we believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every way.
My family itself is so small that it will not take me long to describe it.
I am a widower and have an only son, Arthur.
He has been a disappointment to me, Mr. Holmes--a grievous disappointment.
I have no doubt that I am myself to blame.
People tell me that I have spoiled him.
When my dear wife died I felt that he was all I had to love.
I could not bear to see the smile fade even for a moment from his face.
I have never denied him a wish.
Perhaps it would have been better for both of us had I been sterner, but I meant it for the best.
He was wild, wayward, and, to speak the truth, I could not trust him in the handling of large sums of money.
So I think, and so, too, thinks my little Mary, who has a woman's quick insight into character.
She is a sunbeam in my house--sweet, loving, beautiful, a wonderful manager and housekeeper, yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman could be.
I do not know what I could do without her.
In only one matter has she ever gone against my wishes.
Twice my boy has asked her to marry him, for he loves her devotedly, but each time she has refused him.
Lucy Parr, who had brought in the coffee, had, I am sure, left the room; but I cannot swear that the door was closed.
Mary and Arthur were much interested and wished to see the famous coronet, but I thought it better not to disturb it.
When I was a youngster I have opened it myself with the key of the box-room cupboard.'
He followed me to my room, however, that night with a very grave face.
'I have been far too generous with you in money matters.'
'I could not bear the disgrace.
I must raise the money in some way, and if you will not let me have it, then I must try other means.'
'You shall not have a farthing from me,' I cried, on which he bowed and left the room without another word.
As I came down the stairs I saw Mary herself at the side window of the hall, which she closed and fastened as I approached.
I have no doubt that she has only been to the side gate to see someone, but I think that it is hardly safe and should be stopped.'
Are you sure that everything is fastened?'
I kissed her and went up to my bedroom again, where I was soon asleep.
"On the contrary, your statement is singularly lucid."
I am not a very heavy sleeper, and the anxiety in my mind tended, no doubt, to make me even less so than usual.
About two in the morning, then, I was awakened by some sound in the house.
It had ceased ere I was wide awake, but it had left an impression behind it as though a window had gently closed somewhere.
I lay listening with all my ears.
Suddenly, to my horror, there was a distinct sound of footsteps moving softly in the next room.
I slipped out of bed, all palpitating with fear, and peeped round the corner of my dressing-room door.
I screamed, 'you villain! you thief!
How dare you touch that coronet?'
He appeared to be wrenching at it, or bending it with all his strength.
At my cry he dropped it from his grasp and turned as pale as death.
I snatched it up and examined it.
One of the gold corners, with three of the beryls in it, was missing.
I shouted, beside myself with rage.
You have dishonoured me forever!
Where are the jewels which you have stolen?'
I roared, shaking him by the shoulder.
There cannot be any missing,' said he.
And you know where they are.
Must I call you a liar as well as a thief?
Did I not see you trying to tear off another piece?'
I shall not say another word about this business, since you have chosen to insult me.
I will leave your house in the morning and make my own way in the world.'
I cried half-mad with grief and rage.
'I shall have this matter probed to the bottom.'
'If you choose to call the police, let the police find what they can.'
I sent the housemaid for the police and put the investigation into their hands at once.
I answered that it had ceased to be a private matter, but had become a public one, since the ruined coronet was national property.
I was determined that the law should have its way in everything.
It would be to your advantage as well as mine if I might leave the house for five minutes.'
He might avert it all if he would but tell me what he had done with the three missing stones.
If you but make such reparation as is in your power, by telling us where the beryls are, all shall be forgiven and forgotten.'
I saw that he was too hardened for any words of mine to influence him.
There was but one way for it.
I called in the inspector and gave him into custody.
The police have openly confessed that they can at present make nothing of it.
You may go to any expense which you think necessary.
I have already offered a reward of £ 1000.
I have lost my honour, my gems, and my son in one night.
He put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to and fro, droning to himself like a child whose grief has got beyond words.
Sherlock Holmes sat silent for some few minutes, with his brows knitted and his eyes fixed upon the fire.
"Do you receive much company?" he asked.
Sir George Burnwell has been several times lately.
"Do you go out much in society?"
"That is unusual in a young girl."
Besides, she is not so very young.
"This matter, from what you say, seems to have been a shock to her also."
"You have neither of you any doubt as to your son's guilt?"
"How can we have when I saw him with my own eyes with the coronet in his hands."
"Do you not think, then, that he might have been trying to straighten it?"
You are doing what you can for him and for me.
But it is too heavy a task.
What was he doing there at all?
And if it were guilty, why did he not invent a lie?
His silence appears to me to cut both ways.
There are several singular points about the case.
"They considered that it might be caused by Arthur's closing his bedroom door."
As if a man bent on felony would slam his door so as to wake a household.
"They are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture in the hope of finding them."
"Have they thought of looking outside the house?"
It appeared to you to be a simple case; to me it seems exceedingly complex.
Consider what is involved by your theory.
"But what other is there?" cried the banker with a gesture of despair.
"If his motives were innocent, why does he not explain them?"
A short railway journey and a shorter walk brought us to Fairbank, the modest residence of the great financier.
Fairbank was a good-sized square house of white stone, standing back a little from the road.
A double carriage-sweep, with a snow-clad lawn, stretched down in front to two large iron gates which closed the entrance.
On the left ran a lane which led to the stables, and was not itself within the grounds at all, being a public, though little used, thoroughfare.
So long was he that Mr. Holder and I went into the dining-room and waited by the fire until he should return.
We were sitting there in silence when the door opened and a young lady came in.
She was rather above the middle height, slim, with dark hair and eyes, which seemed the darker against the absolute pallor of her skin.
I do not think that I have ever seen such deadly paleness in a woman's face.
Her lips, too, were bloodless, but her eyes were flushed with crying.
Disregarding my presence, she went straight to her uncle and passed her hand over his head with a sweet womanly caress.
"You have given orders that Arthur should be liberated, have you not, dad?" she asked.
"No, no, my girl, the matter must be probed to the bottom."
You know what woman's instincts are.
"Why is he silent, then, if he is innocent?"
"How could I help suspecting him, when I actually saw him with the coronet in his hand?"
Oh, do, do take my word for it that he is innocent.
Let the matter drop and say no more.
Your affection for Arthur blinds you as to the awful consequences to me.
"This gentleman?" she asked, facing round to me.
He wished us to leave him alone.
She raised her dark eyebrows.
Ah! this, I suppose, is he.
"Pray do, sir, if it may help to clear this horrible affair up."
"You heard nothing yourself last night?"
"Were they all fastened this morning?"
"Yes, and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room, and who may have heard uncle's remarks about the coronet."
We must come back to that.
About this girl, Miss Holder.
"He stood," said Holmes, "to the left of the door--that is to say, farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door?"
"And he is a man with a wooden leg?"
Something like fear sprang up in the young lady's expressive black eyes.
"Why, you are like a magician," said she.
She smiled, but there was no answering smile in Holmes' thin, eager face.
"I should be very glad now to go upstairs," said he.
He walked swiftly round from one to the other, pausing only at the large one which looked from the hall onto the stable lane.
This he opened and made a very careful examination of the sill with his powerful magnifying lens.
"Now we shall go upstairs," said he at last.
The banker's dressing-room was a plainly furnished little chamber, with a grey carpet, a large bureau, and a long mirror.
Holmes went to the bureau first and looked hard at the lock.
"Which key was used to open it?" he asked.
"That which my son himself indicated--that of the cupboard of the lumber-room."
"That is it on the dressing-table."
Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bureau.
"It is a noiseless lock," said he.
This case, I presume, contains the coronet.
He opened the case, and taking out the diadem he laid it upon the table.
It was a magnificent specimen of the jeweller's art, and the thirty-six stones were the finest that I have ever seen.
At one side of the coronet was a cracked edge, where a corner holding three gems had been torn away.
The banker recoiled in horror.
"I should not dream of trying," said he.
Holmes suddenly bent his strength upon it, but without result.
An ordinary man could not do it.
Now, what do you think would happen if I did break it, Mr. Holder?
There would be a noise like a pistol shot.
"I confess that I still share my uncle's perplexity."
"Your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him?"
"He had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt."
He went alone, at his own request, for he explained that any unnecessary footmarks might make his task more difficult.
For an hour or more he was at work, returning at last with his feet heavy with snow and his features as inscrutable as ever.
"I think that I have seen now all that there is to see, Mr. Holder," said he; "I can serve you best by returning to my rooms."
The banker wrung his hands.
"I shall never see them again!" he cried.
"My opinion is in no way altered."
"Then, for God's sake, what was this dark business which was acted in my house last night?"
"I would give my fortune to have them back."
I shall look into the matter between this and then.
It was not yet three when we found ourselves in our rooms once more.
He hurried to his chamber and was down again in a few minutes dressed as a common loafer.
With his collar turned up, his shiny, seedy coat, his red cravat, and his worn boots, he was a perfect sample of the class.
"I think that this should do," said he, glancing into the glass above the fireplace.
I may be on the trail in this matter, or I may be following a will-o'-the-wisp, but I shall soon know which it is.
I had just finished my tea when he returned, evidently in excellent spirits, swinging an old elastic-sided boot in his hand.
He chucked it down into a corner and helped himself to a cup of tea.
"I only looked in as I passed," said he.
It may be some time before I get back.
"How are you getting on?"
I have been out to Streatham since I saw you last, but I did not call at the house.
It is a very sweet little problem, and I would not have missed it for a good deal.
I could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for satisfaction than his words alone would imply.
His eyes twinkled, and there was even a touch of colour upon his sallow cheeks.
I waited until midnight, but there was no sign of his return, so I retired to my room.
"You will excuse my beginning without you, Watson," said he, "but you remember that our client has rather an early appointment this morning."
"Why, it is after nine now," I answered.
It was, indeed, our friend the financier.
"I do not know what I have done to be so severely tried," said he.
Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured age.
One sorrow comes close upon the heels of another.
Her bed this morning had not been slept in, her room was empty, and a note for me lay upon the hall table.
I had said to her last night, in sorrow and not in anger, that if she had married my boy all might have been well with him.
Perhaps it was thoughtless of me to say so.
I cannot, with this thought in my mind, ever again be happy under your roof, and I feel that I must leave you forever.
It is perhaps the best possible solution.
You have heard something, Mr. Holmes; you have learned something!
"You would not think £ 1000 apiece an excessive sum for them?"
Three thousand will cover the matter.
And there is a little reward, I fancy.
With a dazed face the banker made out the required check.
Holmes walked over to his desk, took out a little triangular piece of gold with three gems in it, and threw it down upon the table.
With a shriek of joy our client clutched it up.
"You have it!" he gasped.
The reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief had been, and he hugged his recovered gems to his bosom.
"There is one other thing you owe, Mr. Holder," said Sherlock Holmes rather sternly.
"Name the sum, and I will pay it."
"Then it was not Arthur who took them?"
"I told you yesterday, and I repeat to-day, that it was not."
"For Heaven's sake, tell me, then, what is this extraordinary mystery!"
Neither you nor your son knew the true character of this man when you admitted him into your family circle.
He is one of the most dangerous men in England--a ruined gambler, an absolutely desperate villain, a man without heart or conscience.
Your niece knew nothing of such men.
When he breathed his vows to her, as he had done to a hundred before her, she flattered herself that she alone had touched his heart.
"I cannot, and I will not, believe it!" cried the banker with an ashen face.
Your niece, when you had, as she thought, gone to your room, slipped down and talked to her lover through the window which leads into the stable lane.
His footmarks had pressed right through the snow, so long had he stood there.
She told him of the coronet.
His wicked lust for gold kindled at the news, and he bent her to his will.
Petrified with astonishment, the lad slipped on some clothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of this strange affair.
Presently she emerged from the room again, and in the light of the passage-lamp your son saw that she carried the precious coronet in her hands.
But the instant that she was gone he realised how crushing a misfortune this would be for you, and how all-important it was to set it right.
In the scuffle, your son struck Sir George and cut him over the eye.
"Is it possible?" gasped the banker.
He could not explain the true state of affairs without betraying one who certainly deserved little enough consideration at his hands.
"And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the coronet," cried Mr. Holder.
And his asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes!
The dear fellow wanted to see if the missing piece were at the scene of the struggle.
I knew that none had fallen since the evening before, and also that there had been a strong frost to preserve impressions.
I passed along the tradesmen's path, but found it all trampled down and indistinguishable.
I thought at the time that this might be the maid and her sweetheart, of whom you had already spoken to me, and inquiry showed it was so.
I was at once convinced from what you had told me that the latter was your son.
I followed them up and found they led to the hall window, where Boots had worn all the snow away while waiting.
Then I walked to the other end, which was a hundred yards or more down the lane.
Boots had then run down the lane, and another little smudge of blood showed that it was he who had been hurt.
When he came to the high road at the other end, I found that the pavement had been cleared, so there was an end to that clue.
I could distinguish the outline of an instep where the wet foot had been placed in coming in.
I was then beginning to be able to form an opinion as to what had occurred.
He had returned with the prize, but had left a fragment in the grasp of his opponent.
The question now was, who was the man, and who was it brought him the coronet?
Now, I knew that it was not you who had brought it down, so there only remained your niece and the maids.
But if it were the maids, why should your son allow himself to be accused in their place?
There could be no possible reason.
As he loved his cousin, however, there was an excellent explanation why he should retain her secret--the more so as the secret was a disgraceful one.
When I remembered that you had seen her at that window, and how she had fainted on seeing the coronet again, my conjecture became a certainty.
A lover evidently, for who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feel to you?
I knew that you went out little, and that your circle of friends was a very limited one.
But among them was Sir George Burnwell.
I had heard of him before as being a man of evil reputation among women.
It must have been he who wore those boots and retained the missing gems.
"I saw an ill-dressed vagabond in the lane yesterday evening," said Mr. Holder.
I found that I had my man, so I came home and changed my clothes.
At first, of course, he denied everything.
But when I gave him every particular that had occurred, he tried to bluster and took down a life-preserver from the wall.
I knew my man, however, and I clapped a pistol to his head before he could strike.
Then he became a little more reasonable.
I told him that we would give him a price for the stones he held--£ 1000 apiece.
That brought out the first signs of grief that he had shown.
'Why, dash it all!' said he, 'I've let them go at six hundred for the three!'
I soon managed to get the address of the receiver who had them, on promising him that there would be no prosecution.
Off I set to him, and after much chaffering I got our stones at £ 1000 apiece.
"A day which has saved England from a great public scandal," said the banker, rising.
Your skill has indeed exceeded all that I have heard of it.
And now I must fly to my dear boy to apologise to him for the wrong which I have done him.
As to what you tell me of poor Mary, it goes to my very heart.
"And yet," said I, smiling, "I cannot quite hold myself absolved from the charge of sensationalism which has been urged against my records."
"No, it is not selfishness or conceit," said he, answering, as was his wont, my thoughts rather than my words.
Therefore it is upon the logic rather than upon the crime that you should dwell.
It was a cold morning of the early spring, and we sat after breakfast on either side of a cheery fire in the old room at Baker Street.
A thick fog rolled down between the lines of dun-coloured houses, and the opposing windows loomed like dark, shapeless blurs through the heavy yellow wreaths.
Our gas was lit and shone on the white cloth and glimmer of china and metal, for the table had not been cleared yet.
"The end may have been so," I answered, "but the methods I hold to have been novel and of interest."
But, indeed, if you are trivial, I cannot blame you, for the days of the great cases are past.
Man, or at least criminal man, has lost all enterprise and originality.
As to my own little practice, it seems to be degenerating into an agency for recovering lost lead pencils and giving advice to young ladies from boarding-schools.
I think that I have touched bottom at last, however.
This note I had this morning marks my zero-point, I fancy.
He tossed a crumpled letter across to me.
HOLMES,--I am very anxious to consult you as to whether I should or should not accept a situation which has been offered to me as governess.
I shall call at half-past ten to-morrow if I do not inconvenience you.
"Do you know the young lady?"
"It is half-past ten now."
"Yes, and I have no doubt that is her ring."
You remember that the affair of the blue carbuncle, which appeared to be a mere whim at first, developed into a serious investigation.
As he spoke the door opened and a young lady entered the room.
I could see that Holmes was favourably impressed by the manner and speech of his new client.
He looked her over in his searching fashion, and then composed himself, with his lids drooping and his finger-tips together, to listen to her story.
I advertised, and I answered advertisements, but without success.
At last the little money which I had saved began to run short, and I was at my wit's end as to what I should do.
Westaway was the name of the founder of the business, but it is really managed by Miss Stoper.
As I came in he gave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly to Miss Stoper.
He seemed quite enthusiastic and rubbed his hands together in the most genial fashion.
He was such a comfortable-looking man that it was quite a pleasure to look at him.
'How could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions and accomplishments?'
'This is all quite beside the question.
The point is, have you or have you not the bearing and deportment of a lady?
There it is in a nutshell.
If you have not, you are not fitted for the rearing of a child who may some day play a considerable part in the history of the country.
But if you have, why, then, how could any gentleman ask you to condescend to accept anything under the three figures?
Your salary with me, madam, would commence at £ 100 a year.'
The gentleman, however, seeing perhaps the look of incredulity upon my face, opened a pocket-book and took out a note.
The Copper Beeches, five miles on the far side of Winchester.
It is the most lovely country, my dear young lady, and the dearest old country-house.'
I should be glad to know what they would be.'
Oh, if you could see him killing cockroaches with a slipper!
Three gone before you could wink!'
He leaned back in his chair and laughed his eyes into his head again.
You see no difficulty, heh?'
In dress now, for example.
We are faddy people, you know--faddy but kind-hearted.
If you were asked to wear any dress which we might give you, you would not object to our little whim.
As you may observe, Mr. Holmes, my hair is somewhat luxuriant, and of a rather peculiar tint of chestnut.
It has been considered artistic.
I could not dream of sacrificing it in this offhand fashion.
He had been watching me eagerly out of his small eyes, and I could see a shadow pass over his face as I spoke.
'It is a little fancy of my wife's, and ladies' fancies, you know, madam, ladies' fancies must be consulted.
And so you won't cut your hair?'
It is a pity, because in other respects you would really have done very nicely.
In that case, Miss Stoper, I had best inspect a few more of your young ladies.'
'You can hardly expect us to exert ourselves to find another such opening for you.
Good-day to you, Miss Hunter.'
She struck a gong upon the table, and I was shown out by the page.
After all, if these people had strange fads and expected obedience on the most extraordinary matters, they were at least ready to pay for their eccentricity.
Very few governesses in England are getting £ 100 a year.
Besides, what use was my hair to me?
Many people are improved by wearing it short and perhaps I should be among the number.
Next day I was inclined to think that I had made a mistake, and by the day after I was sure of it.
My wife is very anxious that you should come, for she has been much attracted by my description of you.
They are not very exacting, after all.
My wife is fond of a particular shade of electric blue and would like you to wear such a dress indoors in the morning.
Then, as to sitting here or there, or amusing yourself in any manner indicated, that need cause you no inconvenience.
Your duties, as far as the child is concerned, are very light.
Now do try to come, and I shall meet you with the dog-cart at Winchester.
"Well, Miss Hunter, if your mind is made up, that settles the question," said Holmes, smiling.
"But you would not advise me to refuse?"
"I confess that it is not the situation which I should like to see a sister of mine apply for."
"What is the meaning of it all, Mr. Holmes?"
Mr. Rucastle seemed to be a very kind, good-natured man.
"But the money, Mr. Holmes, the money!"
That is what makes me uneasy.
Why should they give you £ 120 a year, when they could have their pick for £ 40?
I assure you that your little problem promises to be the most interesting which has come my way for some months.
There is something distinctly novel about some of the features.
Holmes shook his head gravely.
"It would cease to be a danger if we could define it," said he.
"But at any time, day or night, a telegram would bring me down to your help."
She rose briskly from her chair with the anxiety all swept from her face.
With a few grateful words to Holmes she bade us both good-night and bustled off upon her way.
"And she would need to be," said Holmes gravely.
"I am much mistaken if we do not hear from her before many days are past."
It was not very long before my friend's prediction was fulfilled.
"Data! data! data!" he cried impatiently.
"I can't make bricks without clay."
And yet he would always wind up by muttering that no sister of his should ever have accepted such a situation.
He opened the yellow envelope, and then, glancing at the message, threw it across to me.
"Just look up the trains in Bradshaw," said he, and turned back to his chemical studies.
The summons was a brief and urgent one.
"Please be at the Black Swan Hotel at Winchester at midday to-morrow," it said.
"Will you come with me?" asked Holmes, glancing up.
"There is a train at half-past nine," said I, glancing over my Bradshaw.
"It is due at Winchester at 11:30."
By eleven o'clock the next day we were well upon our way to the old English capital.
It was an ideal spring day, a light blue sky, flecked with little fleecy white clouds drifting across from west to east.
The sun was shining very brightly, and yet there was an exhilarating nip in the air, which set an edge to a man's energy.
"Are they not fresh and beautiful?"
I cried with all the enthusiasm of a man fresh from the fogs of Baker Street.
But Holmes shook his head gravely.
You look at these scattered houses, and you are impressed by their beauty.
"Who would associate crime with these dear old homesteads?"
The pressure of public opinion can do in the town what the law cannot accomplish.
But look at these lonely houses, each in its own fields, filled for the most part with poor ignorant folk who know little of the law.
Think of the deeds of hellish cruelty, the hidden wickedness which may go on, year in, year out, in such places, and none the wiser.
Had this lady who appeals to us for help gone to live in Winchester, I should never have had a fear for her.
It is the five miles of country which makes the danger.
"No. If she can come to Winchester to meet us she can get away."
But which of these is correct can only be determined by the fresh information which we shall no doubt find waiting for us.
The Black Swan is an inn of repute in the High Street, at no distance from the station, and there we found the young lady waiting for us.
She had engaged a sitting-room, and our lunch awaited us upon the table.
"I am so delighted that you have come," she said earnestly.
"Pray tell us what has happened to you."
"Let us have everything in its due order."
Holmes thrust his long thin legs out towards the fire and composed himself to listen.
It is only fair to them to say that.
"What can you not understand?"
But you shall have it all just as it occurred.
When I came down, Mr. Rucastle met me here and drove me in his dog-cart to the Copper Beeches.
This ground in front belongs to the house, but the woods all round are part of Lord Southerton's preserves.
A clump of copper beeches immediately in front of the hall door has given its name to the place.
There was no truth, Mr. Holmes, in the conjecture which seemed to us to be probable in your rooms at Baker Street.
Mrs. Rucastle is not mad.
Mr. Rucastle told me in private that the reason why she had left them was that she had an unreasoning aversion to her stepmother.
As the daughter could not have been less than twenty, I can quite imagine that her position must have been uncomfortable with her father's young wife.
She impressed me neither favourably nor the reverse.
It was easy to see that she was passionately devoted both to her husband and to her little son.
Her light grey eyes wandered continually from one to the other, noting every little want and forestalling it if possible.
He was kind to her also in his bluff, boisterous fashion, and on the whole they seemed to be a happy couple.
And yet she had some secret sorrow, this woman.
She would often be lost in deep thought, with the saddest look upon her face.
More than once I have surprised her in tears.
He is small for his age, with a head which is quite disproportionately large.
His whole life appears to be spent in an alternation between savage fits of passion and gloomy intervals of sulking.
"I am glad of all details," remarked my friend, "whether they seem to you to be relevant or not."
The one unpleasant thing about the house, which struck me at once, was the appearance and conduct of the servants.
There are only two, a man and his wife.
Toller, for that is his name, is a rough, uncouth man, with grizzled hair and whiskers, and a perpetual smell of drink.
Twice since I have been with them he has been quite drunk, and yet Mr. Rucastle seemed to take no notice of it.
His wife is a very tall and strong woman with a sour face, as silent as Mrs. Rucastle and much less amiable.
I assure you that it has not detracted in the tiniest iota from your appearance.
We shall now see how the electric-blue dress will become you.
It was of excellent material, a sort of beige, but it bore unmistakable signs of having been worn before.
It could not have been a better fit if I had been measured for it.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle expressed a delight at the look of it, which seemed quite exaggerated in its vehemence.
A chair had been placed close to the central window, with its back turned towards it.
You cannot imagine how comical he was, and I laughed until I was quite weary.
At first it seemed to be impossible, but I soon devised a means.
My hand-mirror had been broken, so a happy thought seized me, and I concealed a piece of the glass in my handkerchief.
I confess that I was disappointed.
At least that was my first impression.
The road is an important highway, and there are usually people there.
This man, however, was leaning against the railings which bordered our field and was looking earnestly up.
I lowered my handkerchief and glanced at Mrs. Rucastle to find her eyes fixed upon me with a most searching gaze.
She said nothing, but I am convinced that she had divined that I had a mirror in my hand and had seen what was behind me.
Kindly turn round and motion to him to go away.'
Kindly turn round and wave him away like that.'
"Your narrative promises to be a most interesting one."
On the very first day that I was at the Copper Beeches, Mr. Rucastle took me to a small outhouse which stands near the kitchen door.
As we approached it I heard the sharp rattling of a chain, and the sound as of a large animal moving about.
'It's only Carlo, my mastiff.
I call him mine, but really old Toller, my groom, is the only man who can do anything with him.
We feed him once a day, and not too much then, so that he is always as keen as mustard.
Toller lets him loose every night, and God help the trespasser whom he lays his fangs upon.
For goodness' sake don't you ever on any pretext set your foot over the threshold at night, for it's as much as your life is worth.'
It was a beautiful moonlight night, and the lawn in front of the house was silvered over and almost as bright as day.
I was standing, rapt in the peaceful beauty of the scene, when I was aware that something was moving under the shadow of the copper beeches.
As it emerged into the moonshine I saw what it was.
It was a giant dog, as large as a calf, tawny tinted, with hanging jowl, black muzzle, and huge projecting bones.
It walked slowly across the lawn and vanished into the shadow upon the other side.
That dreadful sentinel sent a chill to my heart which I do not think that any burglar could have done.
I had, as you know, cut off my hair in London, and I had placed it in a great coil at the bottom of my trunk.
One evening, after the child was in bed, I began to amuse myself by examining the furniture of my room and by rearranging my own little things.
There was an old chest of drawers in the room, the two upper ones empty and open, the lower one locked.
It struck me that it might have been fastened by a mere oversight, so I took out my bunch of keys and tried to open it.
The very first key fitted to perfection, and I drew the drawer open.
There was only one thing in it, but I am sure that you would never guess what it was.
It was of the same peculiar tint, and the same thickness.
But then the impossibility of the thing obtruded itself upon me.
How could my hair have been locked in the drawer?
With trembling hands I undid my trunk, turned out the contents, and drew from the bottom my own hair.
I laid the two tresses together, and I assure you that they were identical.
Puzzle as I would, I could make nothing at all of what it meant.
There was one wing, however, which appeared not to be inhabited at all.
A door which faced that which led into the quarters of the Tollers opened into this suite, but it was invariably locked.
His cheeks were red, his brow was all crinkled with anger, and the veins stood out at his temples with passion.
He locked the door and hurried past me without a word or a look.
There were four of them in a row, three of which were simply dirty, while the fourth was shuttered up.
They were evidently all deserted.
As I strolled up and down, glancing at them occasionally, Mr. Rucastle came out to me, looking as merry and jovial as ever.
I was preoccupied with business matters.'
'By the way,' said I, 'you seem to have quite a suite of spare rooms up there, and one of them has the shutters up.'
'I have made my dark room up there.
But, dear me! what an observant young lady we have come upon.
Who would have believed it?
Who would have ever believed it?'
He spoke in a jesting tone, but there was no jest in his eyes as he looked at me.
I read suspicion there and annoyance, but no jest.
It was not mere curiosity, though I have my share of that.
It was more a feeling of duty--a feeling that some good might come from my penetrating to this place.
They talk of woman's instinct; perhaps it was woman's instinct which gave me that feeling.
At any rate, it was there, and I was keenly on the lookout for any chance to pass the forbidden door.
Recently he has been drinking hard, and yesterday evening he was very drunk; and when I came upstairs there was the key in the door.
I have no doubt at all that he had left it there.
Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle were both downstairs, and the child was with them, so that I had an admirable opportunity.
I turned the key gently in the lock, opened the door, and slipped through.
Round this corner were three doors in a line, the first and third of which were open.
The door itself was locked as well, and the key was not there.
This barricaded door corresponded clearly with the shuttered window outside, and yet I could see by the glimmer from beneath it that the room was not in darkness.
Evidently there was a skylight which let in light from above.
A mad, unreasoning terror rose up in me at the sight, Mr. Holmes.
My overstrung nerves failed me suddenly, and I turned and ran--ran as though some dreadful hand were behind me clutching at the skirt of my dress.
I rushed down the passage, through the door, and straight into the arms of Mr. Rucastle, who was waiting outside.
I thought that it must be when I saw the door open.'
I was keenly on my guard against him.
'But it is so lonely and eerie in this dim light that I was frightened and ran out again.
Oh, it is so dreadfully still in there!'
He was still smiling in the most amiable manner.
I suppose that I must have rushed past him into my room.
I remember nothing until I found myself lying on my bed trembling all over.
Then I thought of you, Mr. Holmes.
I could not live there longer without some advice.
I was frightened of the house, of the man, of the woman, of the servants, even of the child.
They were all horrible to me.
If I could only bring you down all would be well.
Of course I might have fled from the house, but my curiosity was almost as strong as my fears.
My mind was soon made up.
I put on my hat and cloak, went down to the office, which is about half a mile from the house, and then returned, feeling very much easier.
I slipped in in safety and lay awake half the night in my joy at the thought of seeing you.
Holmes and I had listened spellbound to this extraordinary story.
My friend rose now and paced up and down the room, his hands in his pockets, and an expression of the most profound gravity upon his face.
"Is Toller still drunk?" he asked.
"Is there a cellar with a good strong lock?"
Do you think that you could perform one more feat?
The Rucastles will be gone by that time, and Toller will, we hope, be incapable.
There only remains Mrs. Toller, who might give the alarm.
We shall then look thoroughly into the affair.
Of course there is only one feasible explanation.
You have been brought there to personate someone, and the real person is imprisoned in this chamber.
You were chosen, doubtless, as resembling her in height, figure, and the colour of your hair.
Hers had been cut off, very possibly in some illness through which she has passed, and so, of course, yours had to be sacrificed also.
By a curious chance you came upon her tresses.
The dog is let loose at night to prevent him from endeavouring to communicate with her.
"What on earth has that to do with it?"
Don't you see that the converse is equally valid.
I have frequently gained my first real insight into the character of parents by studying their children.
"I am sure that you are right, Mr. Holmes," cried our client.
We can do nothing until seven o'clock.
We were as good as our word, for it was just seven when we reached the Copper Beeches, having put up our trap at a wayside public-house.
"Have you managed it?" asked Holmes.
A loud thudding noise came from somewhere downstairs.
"That is Mrs. Toller in the cellar," said she.
"You have done well indeed!" cried Holmes with enthusiasm.
"Now lead the way, and we shall soon see the end of this black business."
We passed up the stair, unlocked the door, followed on down a passage, and found ourselves in front of the barricade which Miss Hunter had described.
Holmes cut the cord and removed the transverse bar.
Then he tried the various keys in the lock, but without success.
No sound came from within, and at the silence Holmes' face clouded over.
"I trust that we are not too late," said he.
It was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united strength.
Together we rushed into the room.
There was no furniture save a little pallet bed, a small table, and a basketful of linen.
The skylight above was open, and the prisoner gone.
"There has been some villainy here," said Holmes; "this beauty has guessed Miss Hunter's intentions and has carried his victim off."
He swung himself up onto the roof.
"But it is impossible," said Miss Hunter; "the ladder was not there when the Rucastles went away."
I tell you that he is a clever and dangerous man.
I should not be very much surprised if this were he whose step I hear now upon the stair.
Miss Hunter screamed and shrunk against the wall at the sight of him, but Sherlock Holmes sprang forward and confronted him.
"You villain!" said he, "where's your daughter?"
The fat man cast his eyes round, and then up at the open skylight.
I have caught you, have I?
He turned and clattered down the stairs as hard as he could go.
"He's gone for the dog!" cried Miss Hunter.
"I have my revolver," said I.
"Better close the front door," cried Holmes, and we all rushed down the stairs together.
An elderly man with a red face and shaking limbs came staggering out at a side door.
It's not been fed for two days.
Holmes and I rushed out and round the angle of the house, with Toller hurrying behind us.
There was the huge famished brute, its black muzzle buried in Rucastle's throat, while he writhed and screamed upon the ground.
Running up, I blew its brains out, and it fell over with its keen white teeth still meeting in the great creases of his neck.
With much labour we separated them and carried him, living but horribly mangled, into the house.
We were all assembled round him when the door opened, and a tall, gaunt woman entered the room.
"Mrs. Toller!" cried Miss Hunter.
Mr. Rucastle let me out when he came back before he went up to you.
"Ha!" said Holmes, looking keenly at her.
"It is clear that Mrs. Toller knows more about this matter than anyone else."
"Yes, sir, I do, and I am ready enough to tell what I know."
"Then, pray, sit down, and let us hear it for there are several points on which I must confess that I am still in the dark."
If there's police-court business over this, you'll remember that I was the one that stood your friend, and that I was Miss Alice's friend too.
She was slighted like and had no say in anything, but it never really became bad for her until after she met Mr. Fowler at a friend's house.
He wanted her to sign a paper, so that whether she married or not, he could use her money.
When she wouldn't do it, he kept on worrying her until she got brain-fever, and for six weeks was at death's door.
"And brought Miss Hunter down from London in order to get rid of the disagreeable persistence of Mr. Fowler."
"Mr. Fowler was a very kind-spoken, free-handed gentleman," said Mrs. Toller serenely.
"You have it, sir, just as it happened."
And thus was solved the mystery of the sinister house with the copper beeches in front of the door.
Mr. Rucastle survived, but was always a broken man, kept alive solely through the care of his devoted wife.
They still live with their old servants, who probably know so much of Rucastle's past life that he finds it difficult to part from them.
Persuasion, relatively faint in tone, and not enthralling in interest, has devotees who exalt above all the others its exquisite delicacy and keeping.
On the other hand, I, for my part, declare for Pride and Prejudice unhesitatingly.
The plot, though not elaborate, is almost regular enough for Fielding; hardly a character, hardly an incident could be retrenched without loss to the story.
Also there is in both a certain not inhuman or unamiable cruelty.
Yet, both in Mr. Addison and in Miss Austen there is, though a restrained and well-mannered, an insatiable and ruthless delight in roasting and cutting up a fool.
And in that sense Miss Austen certainly was one.
And I am not so certain that I should myself use the word "narrow" in connection with her.
If her world is a microcosm, the cosmic quality of it is at least as eminent as the littleness.
Even Scott required hill and mountain and ballad, even Coleridge metaphysics and German to enable them to chip the classical shell.
The one was humanity, and the other was art.
On the first head she could not make a mistake; her men, though limited, are true, and her women are, in the old sense, "absolute."
As to art, if she has never tried idealism, her realism is real to a degree which makes the false realism of our own day look merely dead-alive.
Take almost any Frenchman, except the late M. de Maupassant, and watch him laboriously piling up strokes in the hope of giving a complete impression.
You get none; you are lucky if, discarding two-thirds of what he gives, you can shape a real impression out of the rest.
But with Miss Austen the myriad, trivial, unforced strokes build up the picture like magic.
Nothing is false; nothing is superfluous.
Mr. Collins is really great; far greater than anything Addison ever did, almost great enough for Fielding or for Swift himself.
It has been said that no one ever was like him.
In the second place, it is rash, I think, to conclude that an actual Mr. Collins was impossible or non-existent at the end of the eighteenth century.
It is very interesting that we possess, in this same gallery, what may be called a spoiled first draught, or an unsuccessful study of him, in John Dashwood.
The formality, the under-breeding, the meanness, are there; but the portrait is only half alive, and is felt to be even a little unnatural.
Mr. Collins is perfectly natural, and perfectly alive.
The latter, like Mr. Collins himself, has been charged with exaggeration.
There is, perhaps, a very faint shade of colour for the charge; but it seems to me very faint indeed.
Let us hope for better things.
Mrs. Bennet we have glanced at, and it is not easy to say whether she is more exquisitely amusing or more horribly true.
Here again I cannot go with the objectors.
Nothing in even our author is finer and more delicately touched than the change of his demeanour at the sudden meeting in the grounds of Pemberley.
Had he been a bad prig or a bad coxcomb, he might have been still smarting under his rejection, or suspicious that the girl had come husband-hunting.
His being neither is exactly consistent with the probable feelings of a man spoilt in the common sense, but not really injured in disposition, and thoroughly in love.
Elizabeth of course belongs to the_ allegro or allegra _division of the army of Venus.
Elizabeth can give at least as good as she gets when she is attacked; but she never "scratches," and she never attacks first.
Then too she is a perfectly natural girl.
Though not in the least "impudent and mannish grown," she has no mere sensibility, no nasty niceness about her.
There were better sense in the sad mechanic exercise of determining the reason of its absence where it is not.
Their names are, in chronological order, Elizabeth Bennet, Diana Vernon, Argemone Lavington, Beatrix Esmond, and Barbara Grant.
I should have been most in love with Beatrix and Argemone; I should, I think, for mere occasional companionship, have preferred Diana and Barbara.
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife.
"My dear Mr. Bennet," said his lady to him one day, "have you heard that Netherfield Park is let at last?"
Mr. Bennet replied that he had not.
"But it is," returned she; "for Mrs. Long has just been here, and she told me all about it."
Mr. Bennet made no answer.
"Do not you want to know who has taken it?" cried his wife, impatiently.
"You want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it."
"Is he married or single?"
A single man of large fortune; four or five thousand a year.
"How so? how can it affect them?"
"Is that his design in settling here?"
Nonsense, how can you talk so!
I certainly have had my share of beauty, but I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now.
"In such cases, a woman has not often much beauty to think of."
"But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when he comes into the neighbourhood."
"It is more than I engage for, I assure you."
Only think what an establishment it would be for one of them.
Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined to go, merely on that account; for in general, you know, they visit no new comers.
Lizzy is not a bit better than the others: and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so good-humoured as Lydia.
You take delight in vexing me.
I have a high respect for your nerves.
"Ah, you do not know what I suffer."
"But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men of four thousand a year come into the neighbourhood."
"It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you will not visit them."
"Depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, I will visit them all."
Her mind was less difficult to develope.
She was a woman of mean understanding, little information, and uncertain temper.
When she was discontented, she fancied herself nervous.
The business of her life was to get her daughters married: its solace was visiting and news.
Mr. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. Bingley.
It was then disclosed in the following manner.
"I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Lizzy."
"We are not in a way to know what Mr. Bingley likes," said her mother, resentfully, "since we are not to visit."
"But you forget, mamma," said Elizabeth, "that we shall meet him at the assemblies, and that Mrs. Long has promised to introduce him."
She has two nieces of her own.
"No more have I," said Mr. Bennet; "and I am glad to find that you do not depend on her serving you."
Mrs. Bennet deigned not to make any reply; but, unable to contain herself, began scolding one of her daughters.
Have a little compassion on my nerves.
"Kitty has no discretion in her coughs," said her father; "she times them ill."
"I do not cough for my own amusement," replied Kitty, fretfully.
"When is your next ball to be, Lizzy?"
"Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and introduce Mr. Bingley to her."
"Impossible, Mr. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted with him myself; how can you be so teasing?"
A fortnight's acquaintance is certainly very little.
One cannot know what a man really is by the end of a fortnight.
The girls stared at their father.
Mrs. Bennet said only, "Nonsense, nonsense!"
"What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?" cried he.
I cannot quite agree with you there.
Mary wished to say something very sensible, but knew not how.
"While Mary is adjusting her ideas," he continued, "let us return to Mr. Bingley."
"I am sick of Mr. Bingley," cried his wife.
If I had known as much this morning, I certainly would not have called on him.
But I knew I should persuade you at last.
I was sure you loved your girls too well to neglect such an acquaintance.
"Now, Kitty, you may cough as much as you choose," said Mr. Bennet; and, as he spoke, he left the room, fatigued with the raptures of his wife.
"What an excellent father you have, girls," said she, when the door was shut.
"Oh," said Lydia, stoutly, "I am not afraid; for though I am the youngest, I'm the tallest."
The rest of the evening was spent in conjecturing how soon he would return Mr. Bennet's visit, and determining when they should ask him to dinner.
Her report was highly favourable.
Sir William had been delighted with him.
He was quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely agreeable, and, to crown the whole, he meant to be at the next assembly with a large party.
Nothing could be more delightful!
To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively hopes of Mr. Bingley's heart were entertained.
In a few days Mr. Bingley returned Mr. Bennet's visit, and sat about ten minutes with him in his library.
He had entertained hopes of being admitted to a sight of the young ladies, of whose beauty he had heard much; but he saw only the father.
The ladies were somewhat more fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining, from an upper window, that he wore a blue coat and rode a black horse.
Mr. Bingley was obliged to be in town the following day, and consequently unable to accept the honour of their invitation, etc. Mrs. Bennet was quite disconcerted.
And when the party entered the assembly-room, it consisted of only five altogether: Mr. Bingley, his two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and another young man.
Mr. Bingley was good-looking and gentlemanlike: he had a pleasant countenance, and easy, unaffected manners.
His sisters were fine women, with an air of decided fashion.
Such amiable qualities must speak for themselves.
What a contrast between him and his friend!
He was the proudest, most disagreeable man in the world, and everybody hoped that he would never come there again.
I hate to see you standing about by yourself in this stupid manner.
You know how I detest it, unless I am particularly acquainted with my partner.
At such an assembly as this, it would be insupportable.
"You are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room," said Mr. Darcy, looking at the eldest Miss Bennet.
But there is one of her sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very pretty, and I dare say very agreeable.
Mr. Bingley followed his advice.
Mr. Darcy walked off; and Elizabeth remained with no very cordial feelings towards him.
She told the story, however, with great spirit among her friends; for she had a lively, playful disposition, which delighted in anything ridiculous.
The evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family.
Mrs. Bennet had seen her eldest daughter much admired by the Netherfield party.
Mr. Bingley had danced with her twice, and she had been distinguished by his sisters.
Jane was as much gratified by this as her mother could be, though in a quieter way.
They returned, therefore, in good spirits to Longbourn, the village where they lived, and of which they were the principal inhabitants.
They found Mr. Bennet still up.
He had rather hoped that all his wife's views on the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found that he had a very different story to hear.
I wish you had been there.
Jane was so admired, nothing could be like it.
Everybody said how well she looked; and Mr. Bingley thought her quite beautiful, and danced with her twice.
Only think of that, my dear: he actually danced with her twice; and she was the only creature in the room that he asked a second time.
First of all, he asked Miss Lucas.
So he inquired who she was, and got introduced, and asked her for the two next.
For God's sake, say no more of his partners.
He is so excessively handsome! and his sisters are charming women.
I never in my life saw anything more elegant than their dresses.
Here she was interrupted again.
Mr. Bennet protested against any description of finery.
She was therefore obliged to seek another branch of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of spirit, and some exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of Mr. Darcy.
So high and so conceited, that there was no enduring him!
He walked here, and he walked there, fancying himself so very great!
Not handsome enough to dance with!
I wish you had been there, my dear, to have given him one of your set-downs.
But that is one great difference between us.
Compliments always take you by surprise, and me never.
What could be more natural than his asking you again?
He could not help seeing that you were about five times as pretty as every other woman in the room.
No thanks to his gallantry for that.
Well, he certainly is very agreeable, and I give you leave to like him.
You never see a fault in anybody.
All the world are good and agreeable in your eyes.
"I would wish not to be hasty in censuring anyone; but I always speak what I think."
With your good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of others!
Affectation of candour is common enough; one meets with it everywhere.
But to be candid without ostentation or design,--to take the good of everybody's character and make it still better, and say nothing of the bad,--belongs to you alone.
And so, you like this man's sisters, too, do you?
Mr. Bingley had not been of age two years when he was tempted, by an accidental recommendation, to look at Netherfield House.
Between him and Darcy there was a very steady friendship, in spite of a great opposition of character.
On the strength of Darcy's regard, Bingley had the firmest reliance, and of his judgment the highest opinion.
In understanding, Darcy was the superior.
Bingley was by no means deficient; but Darcy was clever.
He was at the same time haughty, reserved, and fastidious; and his manners, though well bred, were not inviting.
In that respect his friend had greatly the advantage.
Bingley was sure of being liked wherever he appeared; Darcy was continually giving offence.
The manner in which they spoke of the Meryton assembly was sufficiently characteristic.
Miss Bennet he acknowledged to be pretty; but she smiled too much.
Miss Bennet was therefore established as a sweet girl; and their brother felt authorized by such commendation to think of her as he chose.
Within a short walk of Longbourn lived a family with whom the Bennets were particularly intimate.
The distinction had, perhaps, been felt too strongly.
For, though elated by his rank, it did not render him supercilious; on the contrary, he was all attention to everybody.
By nature inoffensive, friendly, and obliging, his presentation at St. James's had made him courteous.
Lady Lucas was a very good kind of woman, not too clever to be a valuable neighbour to Mrs. Bennet.
The eldest of them, a sensible, intelligent young woman, about twenty-seven, was Elizabeth's intimate friend.
"You began the evening well, Charlotte," said Mrs. Bennet, with civil self-command, to Miss Lucas.
"You were Mr. Bingley's first choice."
"Yes; but he seemed to like his second better."
"My overhearings were more to the purpose than yours, Eliza," said Charlotte.
"I certainly saw Mr. Darcy speaking to her."
If he had been so very agreeable, he would have talked to Mrs. Long.
"I do not mind his not talking to Mrs. Long," said Miss Lucas, "but I wish he had danced with Eliza."
"Another time, Lizzy," said her mother, "I would not dance with him, if I were you."
"I believe, ma'am, I may safely promise you never to dance with him."
One cannot wonder that so very fine a young man, with family, fortune, everything in his favour, should think highly of himself.
"That is very true," replied Elizabeth, "and I could easily forgive his pride, if he had not mortified mine."
Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously.
A person may be proud without being vain.
The boy protested that she should not; she continued to declare that she would; and the argument ended only with the visit.
The ladies of Longbourn soon waited on those of Netherfield.
The visit was returned in due form.
She mentioned this to her friend, Miss Lucas.
There is so much of gratitude or vanity in almost every attachment, that it is not safe to leave any to itself.
We can all begin freely--a slight preference is natural enough; but there are very few of us who have heart enough to be really in love without encouragement.
In nine cases out of ten, a woman had better show more affection than she feels.
"Remember, Eliza, that he does not know Jane's disposition as you do."
"But if a woman is partial to a man, and does not endeavor to conceal it, he must find it out."
Jane should therefore make the most of every half hour in which she can command his attention.
But these are not Jane's feelings; she is not acting by design.
As yet she cannot even be certain of the degree of her own regard, nor of its reasonableness.
She has known him only a fortnight.
She danced four dances with him at Meryton; she saw him one morning at his own house, and has since dined in company with him four times.
Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance.
If the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other, or ever so similar beforehand, it does not advance their felicity in the least.
To this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying.
He began to wish to know more of her; and, as a step towards conversing with her himself, attended to her conversation with others.
His doing so drew her notice.
It was at Sir William Lucas's, where a large party were assembled.
"What does Mr. Darcy mean," said she to Charlotte, "by listening to my conversation with Colonel Forster?"
"That is a question which Mr. Darcy only can answer."
"Did not you think, Mr. Darcy, that I expressed myself uncommonly well just now, when I was teasing Colonel Forster to give us a ball at Meryton?"
"With great energy; but it is a subject which always makes a lady energetic."
"It will be her turn soon to be teased," said Miss Lucas.
"I am going to open the instrument, Eliza, and you know what follows."
On Miss Lucas's persevering, however, she added, "Very well; if it must be so, it must."
Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital.
There is nothing like dancing, after all.
"Certainly, sir; and it has the advantage also of being in vogue amongst the less polished societies of the world: every savage can dance."
"You saw me dance at Meryton, I believe, sir."
"Do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the place?"
"It is a compliment which I never pay to any place if I can avoid it."
"You have a house in town, I conclude?"
Mr. Darcy, you must allow me to present this young lady to you as a very desirable partner.
Mr. Darcy, with grave propriety, requested to be allowed the honour of her hand, but in vain.
Elizabeth was determined; nor did Sir William at all shake her purpose by his attempt at persuasion.
"Mr. Darcy is all politeness," said Elizabeth, smiling.
"He is, indeed: but considering the inducement, my dear Miss Eliza, we cannot wonder at his complaisance; for who would object to such a partner?"
Elizabeth looked archly, and turned away.
"I can guess the subject of your reverie."
I was never more annoyed!
The insipidity, and yet the noise--the nothingness, and yet the self-importance, of all these people!
My mind was more agreeably engaged.
Miss Bingley immediately fixed her eyes on his face, and desired he would tell her what lady had the credit of inspiring such reflections.
"Miss Elizabeth Bennet!" repeated Miss Bingley.
A lady's imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love to matrimony, in a moment.
Her father had been an attorney in Meryton, and had left her four thousand pounds.
Their visits to Mrs. Philips were now productive of the most interesting intelligence.
Every day added something to their knowledge of the officers' names and connections.
Their lodgings were not long a secret, and at length they began to know the officers themselves.
Mr. Philips visited them all, and this opened to his nieces a source of felicity unknown before.
"If my children are silly, I must hope to be always sensible of it."
"Yes; but as it happens, they are all of them very clever."
When they get to our age, I dare say they will not think about officers any more than we do.
Mrs. Bennet was prevented replying by the entrance of the footman with a note for Miss Bennet; it came from Netherfield, and the servant waited for an answer.
"It is from Miss Bingley," said Jane, and then read it aloud.
Come as soon as you can on the receipt of this.
My brother and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers.
"With the officers!" cried Lydia: "I wonder my aunt did not tell us of that."
"Dining out," said Mrs. Bennet; "that is very unlucky."
"Can I have the carriage?" said Jane.
"No, my dear, you had better go on horseback, because it seems likely to rain; and then you must stay all night."
"That would be a good scheme," said Elizabeth, "if you were sure that they would not offer to send her home."
"Oh, but the gentlemen will have Mr. Bingley's chaise to go to Meryton; and the Hursts have no horses to theirs."
"I had much rather go in the coach."
"They are wanted in the farm much oftener than I can get them."
"But if you have got them to-day," said Elizabeth, "my mother's purpose will be answered."
Her hopes were answered; Jane had not been gone long before it rained hard.
Her sisters were uneasy for her, but her mother was delighted.
The rain continued the whole evening without intermission; Jane certainly could not come back.
"This was a lucky idea of mine, indeed!" said Mrs. Bennet, more than once, as if the credit of making it rain were all her own.
Till the next morning, however, she was not aware of all the felicity of her contrivance.
My kind friends will not hear of my returning home till I am better.
People do not die of little trifling colds.
She will be taken good care of.
As long as she stays there, it is all very well.
Elizabeth, feeling really anxious, determined to go to her, though the carriage was not to be had: and as she was no horsewoman, walking was her only alternative.
"I shall be very fit to see Jane--which is all I want."
"Is this a hint to me, Lizzy," said her father, "to send for the horses?"
I do not wish to avoid the walk.
The distance is nothing, when one has a motive; only three miles.
"We will go as far as Meryton with you," said Catherine and Lydia.
Elizabeth accepted their company, and the three young ladies set off together.
"If we make haste," said Lydia, as they walked along, "perhaps we may see something of Captain Carter, before he goes."
She was shown into the breakfast parlour, where all but Jane were assembled, and where her appearance created a great deal of surprise.
She was received, however, very politely by them; and in their brother's manners there was something better than politeness--there was good-humour and kindness.
Mr. Darcy said very little, and Mr. Hurst nothing at all.
The former was divided between admiration of the brilliancy which exercise had given to her complexion and doubt as to the occasion's justifying her coming so far alone.
The latter was thinking only of his breakfast.
Her inquiries after her sister were not very favourably answered.
Miss Bennet had slept ill, and though up, was very feverish, and not well enough to leave her room.
The advice was followed readily, for the feverish symptoms increased, and her head ached acutely.
Elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment, nor were the other ladies often absent; the gentlemen being out, they had in fact nothing to do elsewhere.
When the clock struck three, Elizabeth felt that she must go, and very unwillingly said so.
Elizabeth most thankfully consented, and a servant was despatched to Longbourn, to acquaint the family with her stay, and bring back a supply of clothes.
At five o'clock the two ladies retired to dress, and at half-past six Elizabeth was summoned to dinner.
Jane was by no means better.
Their brother, indeed, was the only one of the party whom she could regard with any complacency.
She had very little notice from any but him.
When dinner was over, she returned directly to Jane, and Miss Bingley began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room.
Her manners were pronounced to be very bad indeed,--a mixture of pride and impertinence: she had no conversation, no style, no taste, no beauty.
I shall never forget her appearance this morning.
I could hardly keep my countenance.
Very nonsensical to come at all!
Why must she be scampering about the country, because her sister had a cold?
I thought Miss Elizabeth Bennet looked remarkably well when she came into the room this morning.
"It shows an affection for her sister that is very pleasing," said Bingley.
"I am afraid, Mr. Darcy," observed Miss Bingley, in a half whisper, "that this adventure has rather affected your admiration of her fine eyes."
"Not at all," he replied: "they were brightened by the exercise."
"I think I have heard you say that their uncle is an attorney in Meryton?"
"Yes; and they have another, who lives somewhere near Cheapside."
"That is capital," added her sister; and they both laughed heartily.
"If they had uncles enough to fill all Cheapside," cried Bingley, "it would not make them one jot less agreeable."
"But it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of any consideration in the world," replied Darcy.
With a renewal of tenderness, however, they repaired to her room on leaving the dining-parlour, and sat with her till summoned to coffee.
Mr. Hurst looked at her with astonishment.
"Do you prefer reading to cards?" said he; "that is rather singular."
"I deserve neither such praise nor such censure," cried Elizabeth; "I am not a great reader, and I have pleasure in many things."
"In nursing your sister I am sure you have pleasure," said Bingley; "and I hope it will soon be increased by seeing her quite well."
Elizabeth thanked him from her heart, and then walked towards a table where a few books were lying.
He immediately offered to fetch her others; all that his library afforded.
Elizabeth assured him that she could suit herself perfectly with those in the room.
"It ought to be good," he replied: "it has been the work of many generations."
"And then you have added so much to it yourself--you are always buying books."
"I cannot comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days as these."
I am sure you neglect nothing that can add to the beauties of that noble place.
"With all my heart: I will buy Pemberley itself, if Darcy will sell it."
"I am talking of possibilities, Charles."
"Upon my word, Caroline, I should think it more possible to get Pemberley by purchase than by imitation."
"Is Miss Darcy much grown since the spring?" said Miss Bingley: "will she be as tall as I am?"
I never met with anybody who delighted me so much.
Such a countenance, such manners, and so extremely accomplished for her age!
"It is amazing to me," said Bingley, "how young ladies can have patience to be so very accomplished as they all are."
They all paint tables, cover screens, and net purses.
"Nor I, I am sure," said Miss Bingley.
"Then," observed Elizabeth, "you must comprehend a great deal in your idea of an accomplished woman."
"Yes; I do comprehend a great deal in it."
"All this she must possess," added Darcy; "and to all she must yet add something more substantial in the improvement of her mind by extensive reading."
"Are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility of all this?"
As all conversation was thereby at an end, Elizabeth soon afterwards left the room.
Miss Bingley was not so entirely satisfied with this reply as to continue the subject.
Elizabeth joined them again only to say that her sister was worse, and that she could not leave her.
Bingley was quite uncomfortable; his sisters declared that they were miserable.
The note was immediately despatched, and its contents as quickly complied with.
Mrs. Bennet, accompanied by her two youngest girls, reached Netherfield soon after the family breakfast.
She would not listen, therefore, to her daughter's proposal of being carried home; neither did the apothecary, who arrived about the same time, think it at all advisable.
After sitting a little while with Jane, on Miss Bingley's appearance and invitation, the mother and three daughters all attended her into the breakfast parlour.
Bingley met them with hopes that Mrs. Bennet had not found Miss Bennet worse than she expected.
"Indeed I have, sir," was her answer.
Mr. Jones says we must not think of moving her.
"You may depend upon it, madam," said Miss Bingley, with cold civility, "that Miss Bennet shall receive every possible attention while she remains with us."
Mrs. Bennet was profuse in her acknowledgments.
I often tell my other girls they are nothing to her.
You have a sweet room here, Mr. Bingley, and a charming prospect over that gravel walk.
I do not know a place in the country that is equal to Netherfield.
"That is exactly what I should have supposed of you," said Elizabeth.
"You begin to comprehend me, do you?" cried he, turning towards her.
"Oh yes--I understand you perfectly."
"I wish I might take this for a compliment; but to be so easily seen through, I am afraid, is pitiful."
"Lizzy," cried her mother, "remember where you are, and do not run on in the wild manner that you are suffered to do at home."
"But people themselves alter so much, that there is something new to be observed in them for ever."
"Yes, indeed," cried Mrs. Bennet, offended by his manner of mentioning a country neighbourhood.
"I assure you there is quite as much of that going on in the country as in town."
Everybody was surprised; and Darcy, after looking at her for a moment, turned silently away.
"Indeed, mamma, you are mistaken," said Elizabeth, blushing for her mother.
Nothing but concern for Elizabeth could enable Bingley to keep his countenance.
His sister was less delicate, and directed her eye towards Mr. Darcy with a very expressive smile.
Elizabeth, for the sake of saying something that might turn her mother's thoughts, now asked her if Charlotte Lucas had been at Longbourn since her coming away.
What an agreeable man Sir William is, Mr. Bingley--is not he? so much the man of fashion! so genteel and so easy!
He has always something to say to everybody.
"Did Charlotte dine with you?"
I fancy she was wanted about the mince-pies.
For my part, Mr. Bingley, I always keep servants that can do their own work; my daughters are brought up differently.
But everybody is to judge for themselves, and the Lucases are a very good sort of girls, I assure you.
It is a pity they are not handsome!
"She seems a very pleasant young woman," said Bingley.
Lady Lucas herself has often said so, and envied me Jane's beauty.
I do not like to boast of my own child; but to be sure, Jane--one does not often see anybody better looking.
It is what everybody says.
I do not trust my own partiality.
But, however, he did not.
Perhaps he thought her too young.
"And so ended his affection," said Elizabeth, impatiently.
"I have been used to consider poetry as the food of love," said Darcy.
Everything nourishes what is strong already.
Darcy only smiled; and the general pause which ensued made Elizabeth tremble lest her mother should be exposing herself again.
Mr. Bingley was unaffectedly civil in his answer, and forced his younger sister to be civil also, and say what the occasion required.
She performed her part, indeed, without much graciousness, but Mrs. Bennet was satisfied, and soon afterwards ordered her carriage.
Upon this signal, the youngest of her daughters put herself forward.
His answer to this sudden attack was delightful to her mother's ear.
And when you have given your ball," she added, "I shall insist on their giving one also.
The day passed much as the day before had done.
The loo table, however, did not appear.
Mr. Darcy was writing, and Miss Bingley, seated near him, was watching the progress of his letter, and repeatedly calling off his attention by messages to his sister.
Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley were at piquet, and Mrs. Hurst was observing their game.
Elizabeth took up some needlework, and was sufficiently amused in attending to what passed between Darcy and his companion.
"How delighted Miss Darcy will be to receive such a letter!"
"It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of to yours."
"Pray tell your sister that I long to see her."
"I have already told her so once, by your desire."
"Thank you--but I always mend my own."
"How can you contrive to write so even?"
I shall see her in January.
"They are generally long; but whether always charming, it is not for me to determine."
"It is a rule with me, that a person who can write a long letter with ease cannot write ill."
He studies too much for words of four syllables.
"My style of writing is very different from yours."
"My ideas flow so rapidly that I have not time to express them; by which means my letters sometimes convey no ideas at all to my correspondents."
"Your humility, Mr. Bingley," said Elizabeth, "must disarm reproof."
"And which of the two do you call my little recent piece of modesty?"
The power of doing anything with quickness is always much prized by the possessor, and often without any attention to the imperfection of the performance.
And yet, upon my honour, I believed what I said of myself to be true, and I believe it at this moment.
"Would Mr. Darcy then consider the rashness of your original intention as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it?"
"Upon my word, I cannot exactly explain the matter--Darcy must speak for himself."
"To yield readily--easily--to the persuasion of a friend is no merit with you."
"To yield without conviction is no compliment to the understanding of either."
A regard for the requester would often make one readily yield to a request, without waiting for arguments to reason one into it.
I am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have supposed about Mr. Bingley.
We may as well wait, perhaps, till the circumstance occurs, before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour thereupon.
I assure you that if Darcy were not such a great tall fellow, in comparison with myself, I should not pay him half so much deference.
Mr. Darcy smiled; but Elizabeth thought she could perceive that he was rather offended, and therefore checked her laugh.
Miss Bingley warmly resented the indignity he had received, in an expostulation with her brother for talking such nonsense.
"I see your design, Bingley," said his friend.
"You dislike an argument, and want to silence this."
Arguments are too much like disputes.
"What you ask," said Elizabeth, "is no sacrifice on my side; and Mr. Darcy had much better finish his letter."
Mr. Darcy took her advice, and did finish his letter.
When that business was over, he applied to Miss Bingley and Elizabeth for the indulgence of some music.
The supposition did not pain her.
She liked him too little to care for his approbation.
"Do you not feel a great inclination, Miss Bennet, to seize such an opportunity of dancing a reel?"
She smiled, but made no answer.
He repeated the question, with some surprise at her silence.
He really believed that, were it not for the inferiority of her connections, he should be in some danger.
She often tried to provoke Darcy into disliking her guest, by talking of their supposed marriage, and planning his happiness in such an alliance.
"Have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity?"
Do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt Philips be placed in the gallery at Pemberley.
Put them next to your great-uncle the judge.
They are in the same profession, you know, only in different lines.
"It would not be easy, indeed, to catch their expression; but their colour and shape, and the eyelashes, so remarkably fine, might be copied."
At that moment they were met from another walk by Mrs. Hurst and Elizabeth herself.
"I did not know that you intended to walk," said Miss Bingley, in some confusion, lest they had been overheard.
"You used us abominably ill," answered Mrs. Hurst, "running away without telling us that you were coming out."
Then taking the disengaged arm of Mr. Darcy, she left Elizabeth to walk by herself.
The path just admitted three.
You are charmingly grouped, and appear to uncommon advantage.
The picturesque would be spoilt by admitting a fourth.
She then ran gaily off, rejoicing, as she rambled about, in the hope of being at home again in a day or two.
Jane was already so much recovered as to intend leaving her room for a couple of hours that evening.
Their powers of conversation were considerable.
They could describe an entertainment with accuracy, relate an anecdote with humour, and laugh at their acquaintance with spirit.
He was full of joy and attention.
He then sat down by her, and talked scarcely to anyone else.
Elizabeth, at work in the opposite corner, saw it all with great delight.
When tea was over Mr. Hurst reminded his sister-in-law of the card-table--but in vain.
She had obtained private intelligence that Mr. Darcy did not wish for cards, and Mr. Hurst soon found even his open petition rejected.
She assured him that no one intended to play, and the silence of the whole party on the subject seemed to justify her.
Mr. Hurst had, therefore, nothing to do but to stretch himself on one of the sofas and go to sleep.
She could not win him, however, to any conversation; he merely answered her question and read on.
I declare, after all, there is no enjoyment like reading!
How much sooner one tires of anything than of a book!
"Much more rational, my dear Caroline, I dare say; but it would not be near so much like a ball."
Miss Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards got up and walked about the room.
Her figure was elegant, and she walked well; but Darcy, at whom it was all aimed, was still inflexibly studious.
Elizabeth was surprised, but agreed to it immediately.
Miss Bingley succeeded no less in the real object of her civility: Mr. Darcy looked up.
He was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as Elizabeth herself could be, and unconsciously closed his book.
She was dying to know what could be his meaning--and asked Elizabeth whether she could at all understand him.
Miss Bingley, however, was incapable of disappointing Mr. Darcy in anything, and persevered, therefore, in requiring an explanation of his two motives.
"I have not the smallest objection to explaining them," said he, as soon as she allowed him to speak.
"Oh, shocking!" cried Miss Bingley.
"Nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination," said Elizabeth.
I do assure you that my intimacy has not yet taught me that.
Tease calmness of temper and presence of mind!
No, no; I feel he may defy us there.
And as to laughter, we will not expose ourselves, if you please, by attempting to laugh without a subject.
"Mr. Darcy is not to be laughed at!" cried Elizabeth.
I hope I never ridicule what is wise or good.
Follies and nonsense, whims and inconsistencies, do divert me, I own, and I laugh at them whenever I can.
"Such as vanity and pride."
Elizabeth turned away to hide a smile.
"Your examination of Mr. Darcy is over, I presume," said Miss Bingley; "and pray what is the result?"
I have faults enough, but they are not, I hope, of understanding.
My temper I dare not vouch for.
It is, I believe, too little yielding; certainly too little for the convenience of the world.
I cannot forget the follies and vices of others so soon as I ought, nor their offences against myself.
My feelings are not puffed about with every attempt to move them.
My temper would perhaps be called resentful.
"That is a failing, indeed!" cried Elizabeth.
But you have chosen your fault well.
I really cannot laugh at it.
"There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular evil, a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome."
"And your defect is a propensity to hate everybody."
"And yours," he replied, with a smile, "is wilfully to misunderstand them."
"Do let us have a little music," cried Miss Bingley, tired of a conversation in which she had no share.
"Louisa, you will not mind my waking Mr. Hurst."
Her sister made not the smallest objection, and the pianoforte was opened; and Darcy, after a few moments' recollection, was not sorry for it.
He began to feel the danger of paying Elizabeth too much attention.
Her answer, therefore, was not propitious, at least not to Elizabeth's wishes, for she was impatient to get home.
Miss Bingley was then sorry that she had proposed the delay; for her jealousy and dislike of one sister much exceeded her affection for the other.
To Mr. Darcy it was welcome intelligence: Elizabeth had been at Netherfield long enough.
She attracted him more than he liked; and Miss Bingley was uncivil to her and more teasing than usual to himself.
On Sunday, after morning service, the separation, so agreeable to almost all, took place.
Elizabeth took leave of the whole party in the liveliest spirits.
They were not welcomed home very cordially by their mother.
Mrs. Bennet wondered at their coming, and thought them very wrong to give so much trouble, and was sure Jane would have caught cold again.
But their father, though very laconic in his expressions of pleasure, was really glad to see them; he had felt their importance in the family circle.
The evening conversation, when they were all assembled, had lost much of its animation, and almost all its sense, by the absence of Jane and Elizabeth.
Catherine and Lydia had information for them of a different sort.
I know of nobody that is coming, I am sure, unless Charlotte Lucas should happen to call in; and I hope my dinners are good enough for her.
"The person of whom I speak is a gentleman and a stranger."
It is Mr. Bingley, I am sure.
Why, Jane--you never dropped a word of this--you sly thing!
Well, I am sure I shall be extremely glad to see Mr. Bingley.
But--good Lord! how unlucky! there is not a bit of fish to be got to-day.
Lydia, my love, ring the bell.
"It is not Mr. Bingley," said her husband; "it is a person whom I never saw in the whole course of my life."
This roused a general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of being eagerly questioned by his wife and five daughters at once.
Pray do not talk of that odious man.
Jane and Elizabeth attempted to explain to her the nature of an entail.
I hate such false friends.
"Why, indeed, he does seem to have had some filial scruples on that head, as you will hear."
"At four o'clock, therefore, we may expect this peace-making gentleman," said Mr. Bennet, as he folded up the letter.
"He must be an oddity, I think," said she.
There is something very pompous in his style.
And what can he mean by apologizing for being next in the entail?
We cannot suppose he would help it, if he could.
I have great hopes of finding him quite the reverse.
There is a mixture of servility and self-importance in his letter which promises well.
To Catherine and Lydia neither the letter nor its writer were in any degree interesting.
Mr. Collins was punctual to his time, and was received with great politeness by the whole family.
Mr. Bennet indeed said little; but the ladies were ready enough to talk, and Mr. Collins seemed neither in need of encouragement, nor inclined to be silent himself.
He was a tall, heavy-looking young man of five-and-twenty.
His air was grave and stately, and his manners were very formal.
"You allude, perhaps, to the entail of this estate."
It is a grievous affair to my poor girls, you must confess.
Not that I mean to find fault with you, for such things, I know, are all chance in this world.
But I can assure the young ladies that I come prepared to admire them.
He was interrupted by a summons to dinner; and the girls smiled on each other.
They were not the only objects of Mr. Collins's admiration.
The dinner, too, in its turn, was highly admired; and he begged to know to which of his fair cousins the excellence of its cookery was owing.
He begged pardon for having displeased her.
In a softened tone she declared herself not at all offended; but he continued to apologize for about a quarter of an hour.
Lady Catherine de Bourgh's attention to his wishes, and consideration for his comfort, appeared very remarkable.
Mr. Bennet could not have chosen better.
Mr. Collins was eloquent in her praise.
She had been graciously pleased to approve of both the discourses which he had already had the honour of preaching before her.
Lady Catherine was reckoned proud by many people, he knew, but he had never seen anything but affability in her.
It is a pity that great ladies in general are not more like her.
"The garden in which stands my humble abode is separated only by a lane from Rosings Park, her Ladyship's residence."
"I think you said she was a widow, sir? has she any family?"
"She has one only daughter, the heiress of Rosings, and of very extensive property."
And what sort of young lady is she?
Mr. Bennet's expectations were fully answered.
to read aloud to the ladies.
Kitty stared at him, and Lydia exclaimed.
Other books were produced, and after some deliberation he chose "Fordyce's Sermons."
My aunt told me so herself on Saturday.
It amazes me, I confess; for certainly there can be nothing so advantageous to them as instruction.
Then, turning to Mr. Bennet, he offered himself as his antagonist at backgammon.
Mr. Bennet accepted the challenge, observing that he acted very wisely in leaving the girls to their own trifling amusements.
His plan did not vary on seeing them.
Mr. Collins had only to change from Jane to Elizabeth--and it was soon done--done while Mrs. Bennet was stirring the fire.
Elizabeth, equally next to Jane in birth and beauty, succeeded her of course.
Such doings discomposed Mr. Bennet exceedingly.
In pompous nothings on his side, and civil assents on that of his cousins, their time passed till they entered Meryton.
The attention of the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by him.
The officer was the very Mr. Denny concerning whose return from London Lydia came to inquire, and he bowed as they passed.
This was exactly as it should be; for the young man wanted only regimentals to make him completely charming.
His appearance was greatly in his favour: he had all the best parts of beauty, a fine countenance, a good figure, and very pleasing address.
On distinguishing the ladies of the group the two gentlemen came directly towards them, and began the usual civilities.
Bingley was the principal spokesman, and Miss Bennet the principal object.
He was then, he said, on his way to Longbourn on purpose to inquire after her.
Both changed colour, one looked white, the other red.
Mr. Wickham, after a few moments, touched his hat--a salutation which Mr. Darcy just deigned to return.
What could be the meaning of it?
It was impossible to imagine; it was impossible not to long to know.
In another minute Mr. Bingley, but without seeming to have noticed what passed, took leave and rode on with his friend.
This was agreed to; and Mrs. Philips protested that they would have a nice comfortable noisy game of lottery tickets, and a little bit of hot supper afterwards.
The prospect of such delights was very cheering, and they parted in mutual good spirits.
Mr. Collins repeated his apologies in quitting the room, and was assured, with unwearying civility, that they were perfectly needless.
Mr. Collins on his return highly gratified Mrs. Bennet by admiring Mrs. Philips's manners and politeness.
Something, he supposed, might be attributed to his connection with them, but yet he had never met with so much attention in the whole course of his life.
It was over at last, however.
When the card tables were placed, he had an opportunity of obliging her, in return, by sitting down to whist.
Mr. Wickham did not play at whist, and with ready delight was he received at the other table between Elizabeth and Lydia.
She dared not even mention that gentleman.
Her curiosity, however, was unexpectedly relieved.
Mr. Wickham began the subject himself.
He inquired how far Netherfield was from Meryton; and, after receiving her answer, asked in a hesitating manner how long Mr. Darcy had been staying there.
"About a month," said Elizabeth; and then, unwilling to let the subject drop, added, "he is a man of very large property in Derbyshire, I understand."
A clear ten thousand per annum.
Elizabeth could not but look surprised.
"As much as I ever wish to be," cried Elizabeth, warmly.
"I have spent four days in the same house with him, and I think him very disagreeable."
I am not qualified to form one.
I have known him too long and too well to be a fair judge.
It is impossible for me to be impartial.
But I believe your opinion of him would in general astonish--and, perhaps, you would not express it quite so strongly anywhere else.
He is not at all liked in Hertfordshire.
Everybody is disgusted with his pride.
"I should take him, even on my slight acquaintance, to be an ill-tempered man."
Wickham only shook his head.
"I wonder," said he, at the next opportunity of speaking, "whether he is likely to be in this country much longer."
If he wishes to avoid seeing me he must go.
Elizabeth found the interest of the subject increase, and listened with all her heart; but the delicacy of it prevented further inquiry.
Society, I own, is necessary to me.
I have been a disappointed man, and my spirits will not bear solitude.
I must have employment and society.
A military life is not what I was intended for, but circumstances have now made it eligible.
He was my godfather, and excessively attached to me.
I cannot do justice to his kindness.
How could his will be disregarded?
I have a warm unguarded temper, and I may perhaps have sometimes spoken my opinion of him, and to him, too freely.
I can recall nothing worse.
Elizabeth honoured him for such feelings, and thought him handsomer than ever as he expressed them.
"But what," said she, after a pause, "can have been his motive? what can have induced him to behave so cruelly?"
"I will not trust myself on the subject," replied Wickham; "I can hardly be just to him."
Elizabeth was again deep in thought, and after a time exclaimed, "To treat in such a manner the godson, the friend, the favourite of his father!"
She could have added, "A young man, too, like you, whose very countenance may vouch for your being amiable."
But she contented herself with--"And one, too, who had probably been his own companion from childhood, connected together, as I think you said, in the closest manner."
He was most highly esteemed by Mr. Darcy, a most intimate, confidential friend.
I wonder that the very pride of this Mr. Darcy has not made him just to you.
It has connected him nearer with virtue than any other feeling.
"Can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good?"
Family pride, and filial pride, for he is very proud of what his father was, have done this.
Not to appear to disgrace his family, to degenerate from the popular qualities, or lose the influence of the Pemberley House, is a powerful motive.
"What sort of a girl is Miss Darcy?"
It gives me pain to speak ill of a Darcy; but she is too much like her brother,--very, very proud.
As a child, she was affectionate and pleasing, and extremely fond of me; and I have devoted hours and hours to her amusement.
But she is nothing to me now.
She is a handsome girl, about fifteen or sixteen, and, I understand, highly accomplished.
How can Mr. Bingley, who seems good-humour itself, and is, I really believe, truly amiable, be in friendship with such a man?
How can they suit each other?
He does not want abilities.
He can be a conversible companion if he thinks it worth his while.
Among those who are at all his equals in consequence, he is a very different man from what he is to the less prosperous.
The whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered round the other table, and Mr. Collins took his station between his cousin Elizabeth and Mrs. Philips.
The usual inquiries as to his success were made by the latter.
"You know of course that Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Lady Anne Darcy were sisters; consequently that she is aunt to the present Mr. Darcy."
I knew nothing at all of Lady Catherine's connections.
"Her daughter, Miss de Bourgh, will have a very large fortune, and it is believed that she and her cousin will unite the two estates."
This information made Elizabeth smile, as she thought of poor Miss Bingley.
Vain indeed must be all her attentions, vain and useless her affection for his sister and her praise of himself, if he were already self-destined to another.
There could be no conversation in the noise of Mrs. Philips's supper party, but his manners recommended him to everybody.
Whatever he said, was said well; and whatever he did, done gracefully.
Elizabeth went away with her head full of him.
Elizabeth related to Jane, the next day, what had passed between Mr. Wickham and herself.
Interested people have perhaps misrepresented each to the other.
No man of common humanity, no man who had any value for his character, could be capable of it.
Can his most intimate friends be so excessively deceived in him?
If it be not so, let Mr. Darcy contradict it.
"I beg your pardon;--one knows exactly what to think."
But Jane could think with certainty on only one point,--that Mr. Bingley, if he had been imposed on, would have much to suffer when the affair became public.
The prospect of the Netherfield ball was extremely agreeable to every female of the family.
And even Mary could assure her family that she had no disinclination for it.
I think it is no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening engagements.
Elizabeth felt herself completely taken in.
She had fully proposed being engaged by Wickham for those very dances; and to have Mr. Collins instead!--her liveliness had been never worse timed.
There was no help for it, however.
Mr. Wickham's happiness and her own was perforce delayed a little longer, and Mr. Collins's proposal accepted with as good a grace as she could.
She was not the better pleased with his gallantry, from the idea it suggested of something more.
Elizabeth, however, did not choose to take the hint, being well aware that a serious dispute must be the consequence of any reply.
Mr. Collins might never make the offer, and, till he did, it was useless to quarrel about him.
No aunt, no officers, no news could be sought after; the very shoe-roses for Netherfield were got by proxy.
The certainty of meeting him had not been checked by any of those recollections that might not unreasonably have alarmed her.
"I do not imagine his business would have called him away just now, if he had not wished to avoid a certain gentleman here."
Attention, forbearance, patience with Darcy, was injury to Wickham.
The two first dances, however, brought a return of distress: they were dances of mortification.
The moment of her release from him was ecstasy.
She danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of talking of Wickham, and of hearing that he was universally liked.
He walked away again immediately, and she was left to fret over her own want of presence of mind: Charlotte tried to console her.
"I dare say you will find him very agreeable."
That would be the greatest misfortune of all!
To find a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate!
He replied, and was again silent.
He smiled, and assured her that whatever she wished him to say should be said.
"Do you talk by rule, then, while you are dancing?"
One must speak a little, you know.
"Are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do you imagine that you are gratifying mine?"
"This is no very striking resemblance of your own character, I am sure," said he.
"I must not decide on my own performance."
She answered in the affirmative; and, unable to resist the temptation, added, "When you met us there the other day, we had just been forming a new acquaintance."
A deeper shade of hauteur overspread his features, but he said not a word; and Elizabeth, though blaming herself for her own weakness, could not go on.
"Mr. Wickham is blessed with such happy manners as may insure his making friends; whether he may be equally capable of retaining them, is less certain."
"He has been so unlucky as to lose your friendship," replied Elizabeth, with emphasis, "and in a manner which he is likely to suffer from all his life."
Darcy made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the subject.
It is evident that you belong to the first circles.
What congratulations will then flow in!
I appeal to Mr. Darcy;--but let me not interrupt you, sir.
"Sir William's interruption has made me forget what we were talking of."
Sir William could not have interrupted any two people in the room who had less to say for themselves.
"What think you of books?" said he, smiling.
"Books--oh no!--I am sure we never read the same, or not with the same feelings."
"No--I cannot talk of books in a ball-room; my head is always full of something else."
"The present always occupies you in such scenes--does it?" said he, with a look of doubt.
"I am," said he, with a firm voice.
"And never allow yourself to be blinded by prejudice?"
"It is particularly incumbent on those who never change their opinion, to be secure of judging properly at first."
"May I ask to what these questions tend?"
"Merely to the illustration of your character," said she, endeavouring to shake off her gravity.
"I am trying to make it out."
"And what is your success?"
"But if I do not take your likeness now, I may never have another opportunity."
"I would by no means suspend any pleasure of yours," he coldly replied.
His coming into the country at all is a most insolent thing, indeed, and I wonder how he could presume to do it.
"I beg your pardon," replied Miss Bingley, turning away with a sneer.
"Excuse my interference; it was kindly meant."
"Insolent girl!" said Elizabeth to herself.
She then sought her eldest sister, who had undertaken to make inquiries on the same subject of Bingley.
"Mr. Bingley does not know Mr. Wickham himself."
"No; he never saw him till the other morning at Meryton."
She then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each, and on which there could be no difference of sentiment.
Elizabeth listened with delight to the happy though modest hopes which Jane entertained of Bingley's regard, and said all in her power to heighten her confidence in it.
How wonderfully these sort of things occur!
Who would have thought of my meeting with--perhaps--a nephew of Lady Catherine de Bourgh in this assembly!
"You are not going to introduce yourself to Mr. Darcy?"
I shall entreat his pardon for not having done it earlier.
I believe him to be Lady Catherine's nephew.
It vexed her to see him expose himself to such a man.
Mr. Darcy was eyeing him with unrestrained wonder; and when at last Mr. Collins allowed him to speak, replied with an air of distant civility.
Mr. Darcy seemed much pleased with the attention.
It was really a very handsome thought.
Her mother's thoughts she plainly saw were bent the same way, and she determined not to venture near her, lest she might hear too much.
It was an animating subject, and Mrs. Bennet seemed incapable of fatigue while enumerating the advantages of the match.
She concluded with many good wishes that Lady Lucas might soon be equally fortunate, though evidently and triumphantly believing there was no chance of it.
Her mother only scolded her for being nonsensical.
What advantage can it be to you to offend Mr. Darcy?
Nothing that she could say, however, had any influence.
Her mother would talk of her views in the same intelligible tone.
Elizabeth blushed and blushed again with shame and vexation.
The expression of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and steady gravity.
Elizabeth now began to revive.
Mary's powers were by no means fitted for such a display; her voice was weak, and her manner affected.
She looked at Jane to see how she bore it; but Jane was very composedly talking to Bingley.
She looked at his two sisters, and saw them making signs of derision at each other, and at Darcy, who continued, however, impenetrably grave.
She looked at her father to entreat his interference, lest Mary should be singing all night.
You have delighted us long enough.
Mary, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted; and Elizabeth, sorry for her, and sorry for her father's speech, was afraid her anxiety had done no good.
Others of the party were now applied to.
The rector of a parish has much to do.
In the first place, he must make such an agreement for tithes as may be beneficial to himself and not offensive to his patron.
And with a bow to Mr. Darcy, he concluded his speech, which had been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the room.
The rest of the evening brought her little amusement.
In vain did she entreat him to stand up with somebody else, and offered to introduce him to any young lady in the room.
There was no arguing upon such a project.
She owed her greatest relief to her friend Miss Lucas, who often joined them, and good-naturedly engaged Mr. Collins's conversation to herself.
She felt it to be the probable consequence of her allusions to Mr. Wickham, and rejoiced in it.
Mrs. Hurst and her sister scarcely opened their mouths except to complain of fatigue, and were evidently impatient to have the house to themselves.
Darcy said nothing at all.
Mr. Bennet, in equal silence, was enjoying the scene.
Mr. Bingley and Jane were standing together a little detached from the rest, and talked only to each other.
Of having another daughter married to Mr. Collins she thought with equal certainty, and with considerable, though not equal, pleasure.
The next day opened a new scene at Longbourn.
Mr. Collins made his declaration in form.
I am sure Lizzy will be very happy--I am sure she can have no objection.
Mr. Collins must excuse me.
He can have nothing to say to me that anybody need not hear.
And upon Elizabeth's seeming really, with vexed and embarrassed looks, about to escape, she added, "Lizzy, I insist upon your staying and hearing Mr. Collins."
You can hardly doubt the purport of my discourse, however your natural delicacy may lead you to dissemble; my attentions have been too marked to be mistaken.
Almost as soon as I entered the house I singled you out as the companion of my future life.
A clergyman like you must marry.
Find such a woman as soon as you can, bring her to Hunsford, and I will visit her.'
This has been my motive, my fair cousin, and I flatter myself it will not sink me in your esteem.
And now nothing remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the violence of my affection.
It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.
"You are too hasty, sir," she cried.
Let me do it without further loss of time.
Accept my thanks for the compliment you are paying me.
I am perfectly serious in my refusal.
You could not make me happy, and I am convinced that I am the last woman in the world who would make you so.
You must give me leave to judge for myself, and pay me the compliment of believing what I say.
I wish you very happy and very rich, and by refusing your hand, do all in my power to prevent your being otherwise.
Your portion is unhappily so small, that it will in all likelihood undo the effects of your loveliness and amiable qualifications.
I would rather be paid the compliment of being believed sincere.
I thank you again and again for the honour you have done me in your proposals, but to accept them is absolutely impossible.
My feelings in every respect forbid it.
I will speak to her about it myself directly.
"Sir, you quite misunderstand me," said Mrs. Bennet, alarmed.
In everything else she is as good-natured a girl as ever lived.
"I have not the pleasure of understanding you," said he, when she had finished her speech.
"Of what are you talking?"
Mrs. Bennet rang the bell, and Miss Elizabeth was summoned to the library.
"Come here, child," cried her father as she appeared.
I understand that Mr. Collins has made you an offer of marriage.
Elizabeth replied that it was.
"Very well--and this offer of marriage you have refused?"
We now come to the point.
Your mother insists upon your accepting it.
"Yes, or I will never see her again."
From this day you must be a stranger to one of your parents.
First, that you will allow me the free use of my understanding on the present occasion; and, secondly, of my room.
Not yet, however, in spite of her disappointment in her husband, did Mrs. Bennet give up the point.
She talked to Elizabeth again and again; coaxed and threatened her by turns.
Though her manner varied, however, her determination never did.
Mr. Collins, meanwhile, was meditating in solitude on what had passed.
He thought too well of himself to comprehend on what motive his cousin could refuse him; and though his pride was hurt, he suffered in no other way.
His regard for her was quite imaginary; and the possibility of her deserving her mother's reproach prevented his feeling any regret.
While the family were in this confusion, Charlotte Lucas came to spend the day with them.
What do you think has happened this morning?
Charlotte's reply was spared by the entrance of Jane and Elizabeth.
I shall not be able to keep you--and so I warn you.
I have done with you from this very day.
I told you in the library, you know, that I should never speak to you again, and you will find me as good as my word.
I have no pleasure in talking to undutiful children.
Not that I have much pleasure, indeed, in talking to anybody.
People who suffer as I do from nervous complaints can have no great inclination for talking.
Nobody can tell what I suffer!
Her daughters listened in silence to this effusion, sensible that any attempt to reason with or soothe her would only increase the irritation.
"Now, I do insist upon it, that you, all of you, hold your tongues, and let Mr. Collins and me have a little conversation together."
Far be it from me," he presently continued, in a voice that marked his displeasure, "to resent the behaviour of your daughter.
My conduct may, I fear, be objectionable in having accepted my dismission from your daughter's lips instead of your own; but we are all liable to error.
I have certainly meant well through the whole affair.
The morrow produced no abatement of Mrs. Bennet's ill humour or ill health.
Mr. Collins was also in the same state of angry pride.
Elizabeth had hoped that his resentment might shorten his visit, but his plan did not appear in the least affected by it.
He was always to have gone on Saturday, and to Saturday he still meant to stay.
After breakfast, the girls walked to Meryton, to inquire if Mr. Wickham were returned, and to lament over his absence from the Netherfield ball.
He joined them on their entering the town, and attended them to their aunt's, where his regret and vexation and the concern of everybody were well talked over.
To Elizabeth, however, he voluntarily acknowledged that the necessity of his absence had been self-imposed.
Soon after their return, a letter was delivered to Miss Bennet; it came from Netherfield, and was opened immediately.
The whole party have left Netherfield by this time, and are on their way to town; and without any intention of coming back again.
"It is evident by this," added Jane, "that he comes back no more this winter."
"It is only evident that Miss Bingley does not mean he should."
It must be his own doing; he is his own master.
I will read you the passage which particularly hurts me.
I will have no reserves from you.
'Mr. Darcy is impatient to see his sister; and to confess the truth, we are scarcely less eager to meet her again.
Miss Bingley sees that her brother is in love with you and wants him to marry Miss Darcy.
No one who has ever seen you together can doubt his affection; Miss Bingley, I am sure, cannot: she is not such a simpleton.
Could she have seen half as much love in Mr. Darcy for herself, she would have ordered her wedding clothes.
But I know the foundation is unjust.
You could not have started a more happy idea, since you will not take comfort in mine: believe her to be deceived, by all means.
"But, my dear sister, can I be happy, even supposing the best, in accepting a man whose sisters and friends are all wishing him to marry elsewhere?"
"How can you talk so?" said Jane, faintly smiling; "you must know, that, though I should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, I could not hesitate."
"I did not think you would; and that being the case, I cannot consider your situation with much compassion."
The idea of his returning no more Elizabeth treated with the utmost contempt.
She represented to her sister, as forcibly as possible, what she felt on the subject, and had soon the pleasure of seeing its happy effect.
The Bennets were engaged to dine with the Lucases; and again, during the chief of the day, was Miss Lucas so kind as to listen to Mr. Collins.
Elizabeth took an opportunity of thanking her.
"It keeps him in good humour," said she, "and I am more obliged to you than I can express."
Charlotte assured her friend of her satisfaction in being useful, and that it amply repaid her for the little sacrifice of her time.
His reception, however, was of the most flattering kind.
Miss Lucas perceived him from an upper window as he walked towards the house, and instantly set out to meet him accidentally in the lane.
But little had she dared to hope that so much love and eloquence awaited her there.
Sir William and Lady Lucas were speedily applied to for their consent; and it was bestowed with a most joyful alacrity.
The whole family in short were properly overjoyed on the occasion.
Charlotte herself was tolerably composed.
She had gained her point, and had time to consider of it.
Her reflections were in general satisfactory.
Mr. Collins, to be sure, was neither sensible nor agreeable: his society was irksome, and his attachment to her must be imaginary.
But still he would be her husband.
This preservative she had now obtained; and at the age of twenty-seven, without having ever been handsome, she felt all the good luck of it.
The least agreeable circumstance in the business was the surprise it must occasion to Elizabeth Bennet, whose friendship she valued beyond that of any other person.
Elizabeth would wonder, and probably would blame her; and though her resolution was not to be shaken, her feelings must be hurt by such a disapprobation.
With proper civilities, the ladies then withdrew; all of them equally surprised to find that he meditated a quick return.
But on the following morning every hope of this kind was done away.
Miss Lucas called soon after breakfast, and in a private conference with Elizabeth related the event of the day before.
"Engaged to Mr. Collins! my dear Charlotte, impossible!"
But when you have had time to think it all over, I hope you will be satisfied with what I have done.
I am not romantic, you know.
Elizabeth quietly answered "undoubtedly;" and, after an awkward pause, they returned to the rest of the family.
Charlotte did not stay much longer; and Elizabeth was then left to reflect on what she had heard.
It was a long time before she became at all reconciled to the idea of so unsuitable a match.
The strangeness of Mr. Collins's making two offers of marriage within three days was nothing in comparison of his being now accepted.
Charlotte, the wife of Mr. Collins, was a most humiliating picture!
Sir William, how can you tell such a story?
Nothing could console and nothing appease her.
Nor did that day wear out her resentment.
Jane had sent Caroline an early answer to her letter, and was counting the days till she might reasonably hope to hear again.
Mr. Collins's return into Hertfordshire was no longer a matter of pleasure to Mrs. Bennet.
On the contrary, she was as much disposed to complain of it as her husband.
It was very strange that he should come to Longbourn instead of to Lucas Lodge; it was also very inconvenient and exceedingly troublesome.
She hated having visitors in the house while her health was so indifferent, and lovers were of all people the most disagreeable.
Such were the gentle murmurs of Mrs. Bennet, and they gave way only to the greater distress of Mr. Bingley's continued absence.
Neither Jane nor Elizabeth were comfortable on this subject.
Even Elizabeth began to fear--not that Bingley was indifferent--but that his sisters would be successful in keeping him away.
It needed all Jane's steady mildness to bear these attacks with tolerable tranquillity.
Mr. Collins returned most punctually on the Monday fortnight, but his reception at Longbourn was not quite so gracious as it had been on his first introduction.
He was too happy, however, to need much attention; and, luckily for the others, the business of love-making relieved them from a great deal of his company.
Mrs. Bennet was really in a most pitiable state.
The very mention of anything concerning the match threw her into an agony of ill-humour, and wherever she went she was sure of hearing it talked of.
The sight of Miss Lucas was odious to her.
As her successor in that house, she regarded her with jealous abhorrence.
She complained bitterly of all this to her husband.
This was not very consoling to Mrs. Bennet; and, therefore, instead of making any answer, she went on as before.
"What should not you mind?"
"I should not mind anything at all."
"Let us be thankful that you are preserved from a state of such insensibility."
How anyone could have the conscience to entail away an estate from one's own daughters I cannot understand; and all for the sake of Mr. Collins, too!
"I leave it to yourself to determine," said Mr. Bennet.
Miss Bingley's letter arrived, and put an end to doubt.
Miss Darcy's praise occupied the chief of it.
Elizabeth, to whom Jane very soon communicated the chief of all this, heard it in silent indignation.
Her heart was divided between concern for her sister and resentment against all others.
To Caroline's assertion of her brother's being partial to Miss Darcy, she paid no credit.
It was a subject, in short, on which reflection would be long indulged, and must be unavailing.
Elizabeth looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude, but said nothing.
He may live in my memory as the most amiable man of my acquaintance but that is all.
I have nothing either to hope or fear, and nothing to reproach him with.
Thank God I have not that pain.
Your sweetness and disinterestedness are really angelic; I do not know what to say to you.
Miss Bennet eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary merit, and threw back the praise on her sister's warm affection.
You wish to think all the world respectable, and are hurt if I speak ill of anybody.
I only want to think you perfect, and you set yourself against it.
Do not be afraid of my running into any excess, of my encroaching on your privilege of universal good-will.
There are few people whom I really love, and still fewer of whom I think well.
I have met with two instances lately: one I will not mention, the other is Charlotte's marriage.
They will ruin your happiness.
You do not make allowance enough for difference of situation and temper.
Consider Mr. Collins's respectability, and Charlotte's prudent, steady character.
You shall not defend her, though it is Charlotte Lucas.
You alluded to something else.
I cannot misunderstand you, but I entreat you, dear Lizzy, not to pain me by thinking that person to blame, and saying your opinion of him is sunk.
We must not be so ready to fancy ourselves intentionally injured.
We must not expect a lively young man to be always so guarded and circumspect.
It is very often nothing but our own vanity that deceives us.
"And men take care that they should."
"If it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but I have no idea of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine."
"And do you impute it to either of those?"
But if I go on I shall displease you by saying what I think of persons you esteem.
"You persist, then, in supposing his sisters influence him?"
"Yes, in conjunction with his friend."
Why should they try to influence him?
They have known her much longer than they have known me; no wonder if they love her better.
But, whatever may be their own wishes, it is very unlikely they should have opposed their brother's.
What sister would think herself at liberty to do it, unless there were something very objectionable?
If they believed him attached to me they would not try to part us; if he were so, they could not succeed.
By supposing such an affection, you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most unhappy.
Do not distress me by the idea.
Elizabeth could not oppose such a wish; and from this time Mr. Bingley's name was scarcely ever mentioned between them.
Mrs. Bennet's best comfort was, that Mr. Bingley must be down again in the summer.
Mr. Bennet treated the matter differently.
Next to being married, a girl likes to be crossed in love a little now and then.
It is something to think of, and gives her a sort of distinction among her companions.
When is your turn to come?
You will hardly bear to be long outdone by Jane.
Here are officers enough at Meryton to disappoint all the young ladies in the country.
Mr. Wickham's society was of material service in dispelling the gloom which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of the Longbourn family.
They saw him often, and to his other recommendations was now added that of general unreserve.
After a week spent in professions of love and schemes of felicity, Mr. Collins was called from his amiable Charlotte by the arrival of Saturday.
On the following Monday, Mrs. Bennet had the pleasure of receiving her brother and his wife, who came, as usual, to spend the Christmas at Longbourn.
Mr. Gardiner was a sensible, gentlemanlike man, greatly superior to his sister, as well by nature as education.
Between the two eldest and herself especially, there subsisted a very particular regard.
They had frequently been staying with her in town.
The first part of Mrs. Gardiner's business, on her arrival, was to distribute her presents and describe the newest fashions.
When this was done, she had a less active part to play.
It became her turn to listen.
Mrs. Bennet had many grievances to relate, and much to complain of.
They had all been very ill-used since she last saw her sister.
Two of her girls had been on the point of marriage, and after all there was nothing in it.
Oh, sister! it is very hard to think that she might have been Mr. Collins's wife by this time, had not it been for her own perverseness.
He made her an offer in this very room, and she refused him.
The consequence of it is, that Lady Lucas will have a daughter married before I have, and that Longbourn estate is just as much entailed as ever.
The Lucases are very artful people, indeed, sister.
They are all for what they can get.
I am sorry to say it of them, but so it is.
It makes me very nervous and poorly, to be thwarted so in my own family, and to have neighbours who think of themselves before anybody else.
When alone with Elizabeth afterwards, she spoke more on the subject.
"It seems likely to have been a desirable match for Jane," said she.
But these things happen so often!
We do not suffer by accident.
It is as often applied to feelings which arise only from a half hour's acquaintance, as to a real, strong attachment.
Every time they met, it was more decided and remarkable.
At his own ball he offended two or three young ladies by not asking them to dance; and I spoke to him twice myself without receiving an answer.
Could there be finer symptoms?
I am sorry for her, because, with her disposition, she may not get over it immediately.
It had better have happened to you, Lizzy; you would have laughed yourself out of it sooner.
But do you think she would be prevailed on to go back with us?
Elizabeth was exceedingly pleased with this proposal, and felt persuaded of her sister's ready acquiescence.
My dear aunt, how could you think of it?
I hope they will not meet at all.
But does not Jane correspond with his sister?
"She will drop the acquaintance entirely."
The Gardiners stayed a week at Longbourn; and what with the Philipses, the Lucases, and the officers, there was not a day without its engagement.
Mrs. Bennet had so carefully provided for the entertainment of her brother and sister, that they did not once sit down to a family dinner.
To Mrs. Gardiner, Wickham had one means of affording pleasure, unconnected with his general powers.
About ten or a dozen years ago, before her marriage, she had spent a considerable time in that very part of Derbyshire to which he belonged.
Mrs. Gardiner had seen Pemberley, and known the late Mr. Darcy by character perfectly well.
Here, consequently, was an inexhaustible subject of discourse.
Seriously, I would have you be on your guard.
Do not involve yourself, or endeavour to involve him, in an affection which the want of fortune would make so very imprudent.
But as it is--you must not let your fancy run away with you.
You have sense, and we all expect you to use it.
Your father would depend on your resolution and good conduct, I am sure.
"My dear aunt, this is being serious indeed."
"Yes, and I hope to engage you to be serious likewise."
I will take care of myself, and of Mr. Wickham too.
"Elizabeth, you are not serious now."
At present I am not in love with Mr. Wickham; no, I certainly am not.
I see the imprudence of it.
Oh, that abominable Mr. Darcy!
My father's opinion of me does me the greatest honour; and I should be miserable to forfeit it.
My father, however, is partial to Mr. Wickham.
All that I can promise you, therefore, is not to be in a hurry.
I will not be in a hurry to believe myself his first object.
When I am in company with him, I will not be wishing.
But do not imagine that he is always here so often.
It is on your account that he has been so frequently invited this week.
You know my mother's ideas as to the necessity of constant company for her friends.
"I shall depend on hearing from you very often, Eliza."
"We shall often meet, I hope, in Hertfordshire."
Elizabeth could not refuse, though she foresaw little pleasure in the visit.
Elizabeth soon heard from her friend, and their correspondence was as regular and frequent as it ever had been: that it should be equally unreserved was impossible.
She wrote cheerfully, seemed surrounded with comforts, and mentioned nothing which she could not praise.
The house, furniture, neighbourhood, and roads, were all to her taste, and Lady Catherine's behaviour was most friendly and obliging.
It was Mr. Collins's picture of Hunsford and Rosings rationally softened; and Elizabeth perceived that she must wait for her own visit there, to know the rest.
Her impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as impatience generally is.
Jane had been a week in town, without either seeing or hearing from Caroline.
She accounted for it, however, by supposing that her last letter to her friend from Longbourn had by some accident been lost.
"My aunt," she continued, "is going to-morrow into that part of the town, and I shall take the opportunity of calling in Grosvenor Street."
She wrote again when the visit was paid, and she had seen Miss Bingley.
I was right, therefore; my last letter had never reached her.
I inquired after their brother, of course.
He was well, but so much engaged with Mr. Darcy that they scarcely ever saw him.
I found that Miss Darcy was expected to dinner: I wish I could see her.
My visit was not long, as Caroline and Mrs. Hurst were going out.
Elizabeth shook her head over this letter.
It convinced her that accident only could discover to Mr. Bingley her sister's being in town.
Four weeks passed away, and Jane saw nothing of him.
She endeavoured to persuade herself that she did not regret it; but she could no longer be blind to Miss Bingley's inattention.
Caroline did not return my visit till yesterday; and not a note, not a line, did I receive in the meantime.
I pity, though I cannot help blaming, her.
She was very wrong in singling me out as she did; I can safely say, that every advance to intimacy began on her side.
I cannot but wonder, however, at her having any such fears now, because if he had at all cared about me, we must have met long, long ago.
If I were not afraid of judging harshly, I should be almost tempted to say, that there is a strong appearance of duplicity in all this.
Let me hear from you very soon.
Miss Bingley said something of his never returning to Netherfield again, of giving up the house, but not with any certainty.
We had better not mention it.
I am extremely glad that you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at Hunsford.
Pray go to see them, with Sir William and Maria.
I am sure you will be very comfortable there.
This letter gave Elizabeth some pain; but her spirits returned, as she considered that Jane would no longer be duped, by the sister at least.
All expectation from the brother was now absolutely over.
She would not even wish for any renewal of his attentions.
His apparent partiality had subsided, his attentions were over, he was the admirer of some one else.
Elizabeth was watchful enough to see it all, but she could see it and write of it without material pain.
Her heart had been but slightly touched, and her vanity was satisfied with believing that she would have been his only choice, had fortune permitted it.
But my feelings are not only cordial towards him, they are even impartial towards Miss King.
I cannot find out that I hate her at all, or that I am in the least unwilling to think her a very good sort of girl.
There can be no love in all this.
Importance may sometimes be purchased too dearly.
Kitty and Lydia take his defection much more to heart than I do.
March was to take Elizabeth to Hunsford.
Absence had increased her desire of seeing Charlotte again, and weakened her disgust of Mr. Collins.
The journey would, moreover, give her a peep at Jane; and, in short, as the time drew near, she would have been very sorry for any delay.
Everything, however, went on smoothly, and was finally settled according to Charlotte's first sketch.
She was to accompany Sir William and his second daughter.
The improvement of spending a night in London was added in time, and the plan became as perfect as plan could be.
The farewell between herself and Mr. Wickham was perfectly friendly; on his side even more.
Her fellow-travellers the next day were not of a kind to make her think him less agreeable.
Elizabeth loved absurdities, but she had known Sir William's too long.
He could tell her nothing new of the wonders of his presentation and knighthood; and his civilities were worn out, like his information.
It was a journey of only twenty-four miles, and they began it so early as to be in Gracechurch Street by noon.
All was joy and kindness.
The day passed most pleasantly away; the morning in bustle and shopping, and the evening at one of the theatres.
Elizabeth then contrived to sit by her aunt.
It was reasonable, however, to hope that they would not continue long.
Mrs. Gardiner then rallied her niece on Wickham's desertion, and complimented her on bearing it so well.
Where does discretion end, and avarice begin?
"If you will only tell me what sort of girl Miss King is, I shall know what to think."
"But he paid her not the smallest attention till her grandfather's death made her mistress of this fortune?"
"But there seems indelicacy in directing his attentions towards her so soon after this event."
I am going to-morrow where I shall find a man who has not one agreeable quality, who has neither manners nor sense to recommend him.
"Take care, Lizzy; that speech savours strongly of disappointment."
"We have not quite determined how far it shall carry us," said Mrs. Gardiner; "but perhaps, to the Lakes."
No scheme could have been more agreeable to Elizabeth, and her acceptance of the invitation was most ready and grateful.
You give me fresh life and vigour.
Adieu to disappointment and spleen.
What are men to rocks and mountains?
Oh, what hours of transport we shall spend!
And when we do return, it shall not be like other travellers, without being able to give one accurate idea of anything.
We will know where we have gone--we will recollect what we have seen.
When they left the high road for the lane to Hunsford, every eye was in search of the Parsonage, and every turning expected to bring it in view.
The paling of Rosings park was their boundary on one side.
Elizabeth smiled at the recollection of all that she had heard of its inhabitants.
At length the Parsonage was discernible.
The garden sloping to the road, the house standing in it, the green pales and the laurel hedge, everything declared they were arriving.
In a moment they were all out of the chaise, rejoicing at the sight of each other.
Mrs. Collins welcomed her friend with the liveliest pleasure, and Elizabeth was more and more satisfied with coming, when she found herself so affectionately received.
When Mr. Collins said anything of which his wife might reasonably be ashamed, which certainly was not seldom, she involuntarily turned her eye on Charlotte.
Once or twice she could discern a faint blush; but in general Charlotte wisely did not hear.
He could number the fields in every direction, and could tell how many trees there were in the most distant clump.
It was a handsome modern building, well situated on rising ground.
She had already learnt that Lady Catherine was still in the country.
She is all affability and condescension, and I doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of her notice when service is over.
I have scarcely any hesitation in saying that she will include you and my sister Maria in every invitation with which she honours us during your stay here.
Her behaviour to my dear Charlotte is charming.
We dine at Rosings twice every week, and are never allowed to walk home.
Her Ladyship's carriage is regularly ordered for us.
"Lady Catherine is a very respectable, sensible woman, indeed," added Charlotte, "and a most attentive neighbour."
A lively imagination soon settled it all.
I will not tell you what it is.
"And is this all?" cried Elizabeth.
"I expected at least that the pigs were got into the garden, and here is nothing but Lady Catherine and her daughter!"
The old lady is Mrs. Jenkinson, who lives with them.
The other is Miss De Bourgh.
She is quite a little creature.
"I like her appearance," said Elizabeth, struck with other ideas.
Yes, she will do for him very well.
At length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on, and the others returned into the house.
Mr. Collins's triumph, in consequence of this invitation, was complete.
I rather expected, from my knowledge of her affability, that it would happen.
But who could have foreseen such an attention as this?
Scarcely anything was talked of the whole day or next morning but their visit to Rosings.
Lady Catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us which becomes herself and daughter.
I would advise you merely to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest--there is no occasion for anything more.
Lady Catherine will not think the worse of you for being simply dressed.
As the weather was fine, they had a pleasant walk of about half a mile across the park.
When they ascended the steps to the hall, Maria's alarm was every moment increasing, and even Sir William did not look perfectly calm.
Elizabeth's courage did not fail her.
Elizabeth found herself quite equal to the scene, and could observe the three ladies before her composedly.
Lady Catherine was a tall, large woman, with strongly-marked features, which might once have been handsome.
Her air was not conciliating, nor was her manner of receiving them such as to make her visitors forget their inferior rank.
There was neither in figure nor face any likeness between the ladies.
But Lady Catherine seemed gratified by their excessive admiration, and gave most gracious smiles, especially when any dish on the table proved a novelty to them.
The party did not supply much conversation.
Mrs. Jenkinson was chiefly employed in watching how little Miss de Bourgh ate, pressing her to try some other dish and fearing she was indisposed.
Maria thought speaking out of the question, and the gentlemen did nothing but eat and admire.
Elizabeth found that nothing was beneath this great lady's attention which could furnish her with an occasion for dictating to others.
Elizabeth felt all the impertinence of her questions, but answered them very composedly.
For your sake," turning to Charlotte, "I am glad of it; but otherwise I see no occasion for entailing estates from the female line.
It was not thought necessary in Sir Lewis de Bourgh's family.
Our instrument is a capital one, probably superior to ---- you shall try it some day.
You ought all to have learned.
The Miss Webbs all play, and their father has not so good an income as yours.
But I suppose you had no opportunity.
"My mother would have no objection, but my father hates London."
"Has your governess left you?"
"We never had any governess."
Five daughters brought up at home without a governess!
I never heard of such a thing.
Elizabeth could hardly help smiling, as she assured her that had not been the case.
We were always encouraged to read, and had all the masters that were necessary.
I always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady and regular instruction, and nobody but a governess can give it.
It is wonderful how many families I have been the means of supplying in that way.
I am always glad to get a young person well placed out.
Mrs. Collins, did I tell you of Lady Metcalfe's calling yesterday to thank me?
She finds Miss Pope a treasure.
'Lady Catherine,' said she, 'you have given me a treasure.'
What, all five out at once?
The younger ones out before the elder are married!
Perhaps she is full young to be much in company.
The last born has as good a right to the pleasures of youth as the first.
And to be kept back on such a motive!
"With three younger sisters grown up," replied Elizabeth, smiling, "your Ladyship can hardly expect me to own it."
"You cannot be more than twenty, I am sure,--therefore you need not conceal your age."
When the gentlemen had joined them, and tea was over, the card tables were placed.
Their table was superlatively stupid.
A great deal more passed at the other table.
Lady Catherine was generally speaking--stating the mistakes of the three others, or relating some anecdote of herself.
Mr. Collins was employed in agreeing to everything her Ladyship said, thanking her for every fish he won, and apologizing if he thought he won too many.
Sir William did not say much.
He was storing his memory with anecdotes and noble names.
The party then gathered round the fire to hear Lady Catherine determine what weather they were to have on the morrow.
The room in which the ladies sat was backwards.
She not unfrequently stopped at the Parsonage, and had a few minutes' conversation with Charlotte, but was scarcely ever prevailed on to get out.
Now and then they were honoured with a call from her Ladyship, and nothing escaped her observation that was passing in the room during these visits.
Their other engagements were few, as the style of living of the neighbourhood in general was beyond the Collinses' reach.
In this quiet way the first fortnight of her visit soon passed away.
Easter was approaching, and the week preceding it was to bring an addition to the family at Rosings, which in so small a circle must be important.
the earliest assurance of it; and, after making his bow as the carriage turned into the park, hurried home with the great intelligence.
On the following morning he hastened to Rosings to pay his respects.
Colonel Fitzwilliam, who led the way, was about thirty, not handsome, but in person and address most truly the gentleman.
Elizabeth merely courtesied to him, without saying a word.
At length, however, his civility was so far awakened as to inquire of Elizabeth after the health of her family.
The subject was pursued no further, and the gentlemen soon afterwards went away.
For the last week they had seen very little of either Lady Catherine or her daughter.
Colonel Fitzwilliam had called at the Parsonage more than once during the time, but Mr. Darcy they had only seen at church.
The invitation was accepted, of course, and at a proper hour they joined the party in Lady Catherine's drawing-room.
What is it you are talking of?
What are you telling Miss Bennet?
"We were talking of music, madam," said he, when no longer able to avoid a reply.
It is of all subjects my delight.
I must have my share in the conversation, if you are speaking of music.
There are few people in England, I suppose, who have more true enjoyment of music than myself, or a better natural taste.
If I had ever learnt, I should have been a great proficient.
And so would Anne, if her health had allowed her to apply.
I am confident that she would have performed delightfully.
Mr. Darcy spoke with affectionate praise of his sister's proficiency.
It cannot be done too much; and when I next write to her, I shall charge her not to neglect it on any account.
I often tell young ladies, that no excellence in music is to be acquired without constant practice.
Mr. Darcy looked a little ashamed of his aunt's ill-breeding, and made no answer.
When coffee was over, Colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elizabeth of having promised to play to him; and she sat down directly to the instrument.
He drew a chair near her.
But I will not be alarmed, though your sister does play so well.
There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the will of others.
"I am not afraid of you," said he, smilingly.
"Pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of," cried Colonel Fitzwilliam.
"I should like to know how he behaves among strangers."
The first time of my ever seeing him in Hertfordshire, you must know, was at a ball--and at this ball, what do you think he did?
He danced only four dances!
I am sorry to pain you, but so it was.
He danced only four dances, though gentlemen were scarce; and, to my certain knowledge, more than one young lady was sitting down in want of a partner.
"I had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the assembly beyond my own party."
Well, Colonel Fitzwilliam, what do I play next?
"Perhaps," said Darcy, "I should have judged better had I sought an introduction, but I am ill-qualified to recommend myself to strangers."
"Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?" said Elizabeth, still addressing Colonel Fitzwilliam.
"Shall we ask him why a man of sense and education, and who has lived in the world, is ill-qualified to recommend himself to strangers?"
They have not the same force or rapidity, and do not produce the same expression.
But then I have always supposed it to be my own fault--because I would not take the trouble of practising.
You have employed your time much better.
No one admitted to the privilege of hearing you can think anything wanting.
Here they were interrupted by Lady Catherine, who called out to know what they were talking of.
Elizabeth immediately began playing again.
She has a very good notion of fingering, though her taste is not equal to Anne's.
Lady Catherine continued her remarks on Elizabeth's performance, mixing with them many instructions on execution and taste.
He seemed astonished too on finding her alone, and apologized for his intrusion, by letting her know that he had understood all the ladies to be within.
They then sat down, and when her inquiries after Rosings were made, seemed in danger of sinking into total silence.
"Perfectly so, I thank you."
"I think I have understood that Mr. Bingley has not much idea of ever returning to Netherfield again?"
"I should not be surprised," said Darcy, "if he were to give it up as soon as any eligible purchase offers."
She was afraid of talking longer of his friend; and, having nothing else to say, was now determined to leave the trouble of finding a subject to him.
"I believe she did--and I am sure she could not have bestowed her kindness on a more grateful object."
"Mr. Collins appears very fortunate in his choice of a wife."
My friend has an excellent understanding--though I am not certain that I consider her marrying Mr. Collins as the wisest thing she ever did.
"It must be very agreeable to her to be settled within so easy a distance of her own family and friends."
Little more than half a day's journey.
"I should never have considered the distance as one of the advantages of the match," cried Elizabeth.
"I should never have said Mrs. Collins was settled near her family."
The far and the near must be relative, and depend on many varying circumstances.
Where there is fortune to make the expense of travelling unimportant, distance becomes no evil.
But that is not the case here.
"Are you pleased with Kent?"
Mr. Darcy related the mistake which had occasioned his intruding on Miss Bennet, and, after sitting a few minutes longer, without saying much to anybody, went away.
"What can be the meaning of this?" said Charlotte, as soon as he was gone.
"My dear Eliza, he must be in love with you, or he would never have called on us in this familiar way."
All field sports were over.
They called at various times of the morning, sometimes separately, sometimes together, and now and then accompanied by their aunt.
But why Mr. Darcy came so often to the Parsonage it was more difficult to understand.
He seldom appeared really animated.
Mrs. Collins knew not what to make of him.
He certainly looked at her friend a great deal, but the expression of that look was disputable.
It was an earnest, steadfast gaze, but she often doubted whether there were much admiration in it, and sometimes it seemed nothing but absence of mind.
In her kind schemes for Elizabeth, she sometimes planned her marrying Colonel Fitzwilliam.
More than once did Elizabeth, in her ramble within the park, unexpectedly meet Mr. Darcy.
How it could occur a second time, therefore, was very odd!
Yet it did, and even the third.
His words seemed to imply it.
Could he have Colonel Fitzwilliam in his thoughts?
She supposed, if he meant anything, he must mean an allusion to what might arise in that quarter.
It distressed her a little, and she was quite glad to find herself at the gate in the pales opposite the Parsonage.
"I did not know before that you ever walked this way."
"No, I should have turned in a moment."
And accordingly she did turn, and they walked towards the Parsonage together.
"Do you certainly leave Kent on Saturday?" said she.
But I am at his disposal.
"He likes to have his own way very well," replied Colonel Fitzwilliam.
It is only that he has better means of having it than many others, because he is rich, and many others are poor.
Now, seriously, what have you ever known of self-denial and dependence?
But in matters of greater weight, I may suffer from the want of money.
"Unless where they like women of fortune, which I think they very often do."
"Our habits of expense make us too dependent, and there are not many in my rank of life who can afford to marry without some attention to money."
He answered her in the same style, and the subject dropped.
I wonder he does not marry, to secure a lasting convenience of that kind.
And pray what sort of a guardian do you make?
Does your charge give you much trouble?
I never heard any harm of her; and I dare say she is one of the most tractable creatures in the world.
She is a very great favourite with some ladies of my acquaintance, Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley.
"Oh yes," said Elizabeth drily--"Mr. Darcy is uncommonly kind to Mr. Bingley, and takes a prodigious deal of care of him."
Yes, I really believe Darcy does take care of him in those points where he most wants care.
From something that he told me in our journey hither, I have reason to think Bingley very much indebted to him.
But I ought to beg his pardon, for I have no right to suppose that Bingley was the person meant.
"You may depend upon my not mentioning it."
"Did Mr. Darcy give you his reasons for this interference?"
"I understood that there were some very strong objections against the lady."
"And what arts did he use to separate them?"
"He did not talk to me of his own arts," said Fitzwilliam, smiling.
"He only told me what I have now told you."
Elizabeth made no answer, and walked on, her heart swelling with indignation.
After watching her a little, Fitzwilliam asked her why she was so thoughtful.
"I am thinking of what you have been telling me," said she.
"You are rather disposed to call his interference officious?"
But," she continued, recollecting herself, "as we know none of the particulars, it is not fair to condemn him.
"That is not an unnatural surmise," said Fitzwilliam; "but it is lessening the honour of my cousin's triumph very sadly."
There, shut into her own room, as soon as their visitor left them, she could think without interruption of all that she had heard.
It was not to be supposed that any other people could be meant than those with whom she was connected.
There could not exist in the world two men over whom Mr. Darcy could have such boundless influence.
Her understanding excellent, her mind improved, and her manners captivating.
They contained no actual complaint, nor was there any revival of past occurrences, or any communication of present suffering.
Elizabeth noticed every sentence conveying the idea of uneasiness, with an attention which it had hardly received on the first perusal.
Mr. Darcy's shameful boast of what misery he had been able to inflict gave her a keener sense of her sister's sufferings.
But this idea was soon banished, and her spirits were very differently affected, when, to her utter amazement, she saw Mr. Darcy walk into the room.
In a hurried manner he immediately began an inquiry after her health, imputing his visit to a wish of hearing that she were better.
She answered him with cold civility.
He sat down for a few moments, and then getting up walked about the room.
Elizabeth was surprised, but said not a word.
My feelings will not be repressed.
Elizabeth's astonishment was beyond expression.
She stared, coloured, doubted, and was silent.
This he considered sufficient encouragement, and the avowal of all that he felt and had long felt for her immediately followed.
She tried, however, to compose herself to answer him with patience, when he should have done.
As he said this she could easily see that he had no doubt of a favourable answer.
He spoke of apprehension and anxiety, but his countenance expressed real security.
It is natural that obligation should be felt, and if I could feel gratitude, I would now thank you.
But I cannot--I have never desired your good opinion, and you have certainly bestowed it most unwillingly.
I am sorry to have occasioned pain to anyone.
It has been most unconsciously done, however, and I hope will be of short duration.
Mr. Darcy, who was leaning against the mantel-piece with his eyes fixed on her face, seemed to catch her words with no less resentment than surprise.
His complexion became pale with anger, and the disturbance of his mind was visible in every feature.
He was struggling for the appearance of composure, and would not open his lips till he believed himself to have attained it.
The pause was to Elizabeth's feelings dreadful.
I might, perhaps, wish to be informed why, with so little endeavour at civility, I am thus rejected.
Was not this some excuse for incivility, if I was uncivil?
But I have other provocations.
No motive can excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted there.
She paused, and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse.
He even looked at her with a smile of affected incredulity.
"Can you deny that you have done it?" she repeated.
Elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection, but its meaning did not escape, nor was it likely to conciliate her.
Long before it had taken place, my opinion of you was decided.
Your character was unfolded in the recital which I received many months ago from Mr. Wickham.
On this subject, what can you have to say?
"You take an eager interest in that gentleman's concerns," said Darcy, in a less tranquil tone, and with a heightened colour.
"Who that knows what his misfortunes have been can help feeling an interest in him?"
"His misfortunes!" repeated Darcy, contemptuously,--"yes, his misfortunes have been great indeed."
You have withheld the advantages which you must know to have been designed for him.
You have deprived the best years of his life of that independence which was no less his due than his desert.
This is the estimation in which you hold me!
I thank you for explaining it so fully.
My faults, according to this calculation, are heavy indeed!
But disguise of every sort is my abhorrence.
Nor am I ashamed of the feelings I related.
They were natural and just.
"You could not have made me the offer of your hand in any possible way that would have tempted me to accept it."
Again his astonishment was obvious; and he looked at her with an expression of mingled incredulity and mortification.
I perfectly comprehend your feelings, and have now only to be ashamed of what my own have been.
And with these words he hastily left the room, and Elizabeth heard him the next moment open the front door and quit the house.
The tumult of her mind was now painfully great.
She knew not how to support herself, and, from actual weakness, sat down and cried for half an hour.
Her astonishment, as she reflected on what had passed, was increased by every review of it.
Elizabeth awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and meditations which had at length closed her eyes.
The park paling was still the boundary on one side, and she soon passed one of the gates into the ground.
But the person who advanced was now near enough to see her, and stepping forward with eagerness, pronounced her name.
She had turned away; but on hearing herself called, though in a voice which proved it to be Mr. Darcy, she moved again towards the gate.
The envelope itself was likewise full.
Pursuing her way along the lane, she then began it.
You must, therefore, pardon the freedom with which I demand your attention; your feelings, I know, will bestow it unwillingly, but I demand it of your justice.
The necessity must be obeyed, and further apology would be absurd.
I had not been long in Hertfordshire before I saw, in common with others, that Bingley preferred your elder sister to any other young woman in the country.
But it was not till the evening of the dance at Netherfield that I had any apprehension of his feeling a serious attachment.
I had often seen him in love before.
He spoke of it as a certain event, of which the time alone could be undecided.
Your sister I also watched.
If you have not been mistaken here, I must have been in an error.
Your superior knowledge of your sister must make the latter probable.
If it be so, if I have been misled by such error to inflict pain on her, your resentment has not been unreasonable.
I did not believe her to be indifferent because I wished it; I believed it on impartial conviction, as truly as I wished it in reason.
These causes must be stated, though briefly.
He left Netherfield for London on the day following, as you, I am certain, remember, with the design of soon returning.
The part which I acted is now to be explained.
We accordingly went--and there I readily engaged in the office of pointing out to my friend the certain evils of such a choice.
I described and enforced them earnestly.
He had before believed her to return his affection with sincere, if not with equal, regard.
But Bingley has great natural modesty, with a stronger dependence on my judgment than on his own.
To convince him, therefore, that he had deceived himself was no very difficult point.
To persuade him against returning into Hertfordshire, when that conviction had been given, was scarcely the work of a moment.
I cannot blame myself for having done thus much.
I knew it myself, as it was known to Miss Bingley; but her brother is even yet ignorant of it.
Perhaps this concealment, this disguise, was beneath me.
It is done, however, and it was done for the best.
On this subject I have nothing more to say, no other apology to offer.
As for myself, it is many, many years since I first began to think of him in a very different manner.
Here again I shall give you pain--to what degree you only can tell.
But whatever may be the sentiments which Mr. Wickham has created, a suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding his real character.
It adds even another motive.
There was also a legacy of one thousand pounds.
I rather wished than believed him to be sincere; but, at any rate, was perfectly ready to accede to his proposal.
I knew that Mr. Wickham ought not to be a clergyman.
The business was therefore soon settled.
All connection between us seemed now dissolved.
I thought too ill of him to invite him to Pemberley, or admit his society in town.
His circumstances, he assured me, and I had no difficulty in believing it, were exceedingly bad.
You will hardly blame me for refusing to comply with this entreaty, or for resisting every repetition of it.
After this period, every appearance of acquaintance was dropped.
How he lived, I know not.
But last summer he was again most painfully obtruded on my notice.
Having said thus much, I feel no doubt of your secrecy.
My sister, who is more than ten years my junior, was left to the guardianship of my mother's nephew, Colonel Fitzwilliam, and myself.
You may imagine what I felt and how I acted.
His revenge would have been complete indeed.
Detection could not be in your power, and suspicion certainly not in your inclination.
You may possibly wonder why all this was not told you last night.
But I was not then master enough of myself to know what could or ought to be revealed.
I will only add, God bless you.
But such as they were, it may be well supposed how eagerly she went through them, and what a contrariety of emotion they excited.
Her feelings as she read were scarcely to be defined.
With a strong prejudice against everything he might say, she began his account of what had happened at Netherfield.
He expressed no regret for what he had done which satisfied her; his style was not penitent, but haughty.
It was all pride and insolence.
Astonishment, apprehension, and even horror, oppressed her.
So far each recital confirmed the other; but when she came to the will, the difference was great.
She put down the letter, weighed every circumstance with what she meant to be impartiality--deliberated on the probability of each statement--but with little success.
On both sides it was only assertion.
As to his real character, had information been in her power, she had never felt a wish of inquiring.
His countenance, voice, and manner, had established him at once in the possession of every virtue.
But no such recollection befriended her.
After pausing on this point a considerable while, she once more continued to read.
She perfectly remembered everything that had passed in conversation between Wickham and herself in their first evening at Mr. Philips's.
Many of his expressions were still fresh in her memory.
She was now struck with the impropriety of such communications to a stranger, and wondered it had escaped her before.
She saw the indelicacy of putting himself forward as he had done, and the inconsistency of his professions with his conduct.
How differently did everything now appear in which he was concerned!
She grew absolutely ashamed of herself.
Of neither Darcy nor Wickham could she think, without feeling that she had been blind, partial, prejudiced, absurd.
"How despicably have I acted!" she cried.
I, who have valued myself on my abilities! who have often disdained the generous candour of my sister, and gratified my vanity in useless or blameless distrust.
How humiliating is this discovery!
Yet, how just a humiliation!
Had I been in love, I could not have been more wretchedly blind.
But vanity, not love, has been my folly.
Widely different was the effect of a second perusal.
How could she deny that credit to his assertions, in one instance, which she had been obliged to give in the other?
He declared himself to have been totally unsuspicious of her sister's attachment; and she could not help remembering what Charlotte's opinion had always been.
Neither could she deny the justice of his description of Jane.
The compliment to herself and her sister was not unfelt.
Elizabeth could but just affect concern in missing him; she really rejoiced at it.
Colonel Fitzwilliam was no longer an object.
She could think only of her letter.
"What would she have said? how would she have behaved?" were the questions with which she amused herself.
Their first subject was the diminution of the Rosings' party.
But I am particularly attached to these young men; and know them to be so much attached to me!
They were excessively sorry to go!
The dear Colonel rallied his spirits tolerably till just at last; but Darcy seemed to feel it most acutely--more, I think, than last year.
Mr. Collins had a compliment and an allusion to throw in here, which were kindly smiled on by the mother and daughter.
I expected you to stay two months.
I told Mrs. Collins so before you came.
There can be no occasion for your going so soon.
Daughters are never of so much consequence to a father.
"You are all kindness, madam; but I believe we must abide by our original plan."
You know I always speak my mind, and I cannot bear the idea of two young women travelling post by themselves.
You must contrive to send somebody.
I have the greatest dislike in the world to that sort of thing.
Young women should always be properly guarded and attended, according to their situation in life.
When my niece Georgiana went to Ramsgate last summer, I made a point of her having two men-servants go with her.
Miss Darcy, the daughter of Mr. Darcy of Pemberley, and Lady Anne, could not have appeared with propriety in a different manner.
I am excessively attentive to all those things.
You must send John with the young ladies, Mrs. Collins.
"My uncle is to send a servant for us."
He keeps a man-servant, does he?
I am very glad you have somebody who thinks of those things.
Where shall you change horses?
Mr. Darcy's letter she was in a fair way of soon knowing by heart.
She studied every sentence; and her feelings towards its writer were at times widely different.
In her own past behaviour, there was a constant source of vexation and regret: and in the unhappy defects of her family, a subject of yet heavier chagrin.
They were hopeless of remedy.
They were ignorant, idle, and vain.
While there was an officer in Meryton, they would flirt with him; and while Meryton was within a walk of Longbourn, they would be going there for ever.
His affection was proved to have been sincere, and his conduct cleared of all blame, unless any could attach to the implicitness of his confidence in his friend.
Their engagements at Rosings were as frequent during the last week of her stay as they had been at first.
The favour of your company has been much felt, I assure you.
We know how little there is to tempt anyone to our humble abode.
Elizabeth was eager with her thanks and assurances of happiness.
She had spent six weeks with great enjoyment; and the pleasure of being with Charlotte, and the kind attention she had received, must make her feel the obliged.
Our situation with regard to Lady Catherine's family is, indeed, the sort of extraordinary advantage and blessing which few can boast.
You see on what a footing we are.
You see how continually we are engaged there.
I flatter myself, at least, that you will be able to do so.
Only let me assure you, my dear Miss Elizabeth, that I can from my heart most cordially wish you equal felicity in marriage.
My dear Charlotte and I have but one mind and one way of thinking.
There is in everything a most remarkable resemblance of character and ideas between us.
She was not sorry, however, to have the recital of them interrupted by the entrance of the lady from whom they sprang.
Poor Charlotte! it was melancholy to leave her to such society!
But she had chosen it with her eyes open; and though evidently regretting that her visitors were to go, she did not seem to ask for compassion.
Her home and her housekeeping, her parish and her poultry, and all their dependent concerns, had not yet lost their charms.
At length the chaise arrived, the trunks were fastened on, the parcels placed within, and it was pronounced to be ready.
Elizabeth made no objection: the door was then allowed to be shut, and the carriage drove off.
"Good gracious!" cried Maria, after a few minutes' silence, "it seems but a day or two since we first came! and yet how many things have happened!"
"A great many indeed," said her companion, with a sigh.
Elizabeth privately added, "And how much I shall have to conceal!"
Jane looked well, and Elizabeth had little opportunity of studying her spirits, amidst the various engagements which the kindness of her aunt had reserved for them.
But Jane was to go home with her, and at Longbourn there would be leisure enough for observation.
It was not without an effort, meanwhile, that she could wait even for Longbourn, before she told her sister of Mr. Darcy's proposals.
"And we mean to treat you all," added Lydia; "but you must lend us the money, for we have just spent ours at the shop out there."
I do not think it is very pretty; but I thought I might as well buy it as not.
"Are they, indeed?" cried Elizabeth, with the greatest satisfaction.
It would be such a delicious scheme, and I dare say would hardly cost anything at all.
Mamma would like to go, too, of all things!
"Now I have got some news for you," said Lydia, as they sat down to table.
Jane and Elizabeth looked at each other, and the waiter was told that he need not stay.
You thought the waiter must not hear, as if he cared!
I dare say he often hears worse things said than I am going to say.
But he is an ugly fellow!
I never saw such a long chin in my life.
Well, but now for my news: it is about dear Wickham; too good for the waiter, is not it?
There is no danger of Wickham's marrying Mary King--there's for you!
She is gone down to her uncle at Liverpool; gone to stay.
"And Mary King is safe!" added Elizabeth; "safe from a connection imprudent as to fortune."
"She is a great fool for going away, if she liked him."
"But I hope there is no strong attachment on either side," said Jane.
I will answer for it, he never cared three straws about her.
"How nicely we are crammed in!" cried Lydia.
Well, now let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk and laugh all the way home.
And in the first place, let us hear what has happened to you all since you went away.
Have you seen any pleasant men?
Have you had any flirting?
I was in great hopes that one of you would have got a husband before you came back.
Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare.
Lord! how ashamed I should be of not being married before three-and-twenty!
My aunt Philips wants you so to get husbands you can't think.
She says Lizzy had better have taken Mr. Collins; but I do not think there would have been any fun in it.
Lord! how I should like to be married before any of you! and then I would chaperon you about to all the balls.
Dear me! we had such a good piece of fun the other day at Colonel Forster's!
We dressed up Chamberlayne in woman's clothes, on purpose to pass for a lady,--only think what fun!
When Denny, and Wickham, and Pratt, and two or three more of the men came in, they did not know him in the least.
Lord! how I laughed! and so did Mrs. Forster.
I thought I should have died.
Elizabeth listened as little as she could, but there was no escaping the frequent mention of Wickham's name.
Their reception at home was most kind.
"I am glad you are come back, Lizzy."
And then when we came away it was such fun!
I thought we never should have got into the coach.
I was ready to die of laughter.
They would doubtless be congenial with the generality of female minds.
But I confess they would have no charms for me.
But of this answer Lydia heard not a word.
She seldom listened to anybody for more than half a minute, and never attended to Mary at all.
In the afternoon Lydia was urgent with the rest of the girls to walk to Meryton, and see how everybody went on; but Elizabeth steadily opposed the scheme.
It should not be said, that the Miss Bennets could not be at home half a day before they were in pursuit of the officers.
There was another reason, too, for her opposition.
She dreaded seeing Wickham again, and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible.
The comfort to her, of the regiment's approaching removal, was indeed beyond expression.
In a fortnight they were to go, and once gone, she hoped there could be nothing more to plague her on his account.
"His being so sure of succeeding was wrong," said she, "and certainly ought not to have appeared; but consider how much it must increase his disappointment."
"But you blame me for having spoken so warmly of Wickham?"
"No--I do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did."
"But you will know it, when I have told you what happened the very next day."
She then spoke of the letter, repeating the whole of its contents as far as they concerned George Wickham.
Nor was Darcy's vindication, though grateful to her feelings, capable of consoling her for such discovery.
Most earnestly did she labour to prove the probability of error, and seek to clear one, without involving the other.
Take your choice, but you must be satisfied with only one.
It was some time, however, before a smile could be extorted from Jane.
"I do not know when I have been more shocked," said she.
It is almost past belief.
And poor Mr. Darcy! dear Lizzy, only consider what he must have suffered.
Such a disappointment! and with the knowledge of your ill opinion too! and having to relate such a thing of his sister!
I know you will do him such ample justice, that I am growing every moment more unconcerned and indifferent.
"Poor Wickham! there is such an expression of goodness in his countenance! such an openness and gentleness in his manner."
"I never thought Mr. Darcy so deficient in the appearance of it as you used to do."
It is such a spur to one's genius, such an opening for wit, to have a dislike of that kind.
"Lizzy, when you first read that letter, I am sure you could not treat the matter as you do now."
I was uncomfortable enough, I was very uncomfortable--I may say unhappy.
"How unfortunate that you should have used such very strong expressions in speaking of Wickham to Mr. Darcy, for now they do appear wholly undeserved."
But the misfortune of speaking with bitterness is a most natural consequence of the prejudices I had been encouraging.
There is one point on which I want your advice.
Mr. Darcy has not authorized me to make his communication public.
Wickham will soon be gone; and, therefore, it will not signify to anybody here what he really is.
Some time hence it will be all found out, and then we may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before.
To have his errors made public might ruin him for ever.
He is now, perhaps, sorry for what he has done, and anxious to re-establish a character.
The tumult of Elizabeth's mind was allayed by this conversation.
But there was still something lurking behind, of which prudence forbade the disclosure.
She dared not relate the other half of Mr. Darcy's letter, nor explain to her sister how sincerely she had been valued by his friend.
She was now, on being settled at home, at leisure to observe the real state of her sister's spirits.
She still cherished a very tender affection for Bingley.
For my part, I am determined never to speak of it again to anybody.
I told my sister Philips so the other day.
But I cannot find out that Jane saw anything of him in London.
Well, he is a very undeserving young man--and I do not suppose there is the least chance in the world of her ever getting him now.
"I do not believe that he will ever live at Netherfield any more."
But as Elizabeth could not receive comfort from any such expectation she made no answer.
Well, well, I only hope it will last.
And what sort of table do they keep?
Charlotte is an excellent manager, I dare say.
If she is half as sharp as her mother, she is saving enough.
They will take care not to outrun their income.
They will never be distressed for money.
Well, much good may it do them!
And so, I suppose, they often talk of having Longbourn when your father is dead.
"It was a subject which they could not mention before me."
But I make no doubt they often talk of it between themselves.
Well, if they can be easy with an estate that is not lawfully their own, so much the better.
The first week of their return was soon gone.
It was the last of the regiment's stay in Meryton, and all the young ladies in the neighbourhood were drooping apace.
The dejection was almost universal.
The elder Miss Bennets alone were still able to eat, drink, and sleep, and pursue the usual course of their employments.
"How can you be smiling so, Lizzy?"
Their affectionate mother shared all their grief; she remembered what she had herself endured on a similar occasion five-and-twenty years ago.
"I am sure I shall break mine," said Lydia.
"If one could but go to Brighton!" observed Mrs. Bennet.
"A little sea-bathing would set me up for ever."
"And my aunt Philips is sure it would do me a great deal of good," added Kitty.
Such were the kind of lamentations resounding perpetually through Longbourn House.
Elizabeth tried to be diverted by them; but all sense of pleasure was lost in shame.
She felt anew the justice of Mr. Darcy's objections; and never had she before been so much disposed to pardon his interference in the views of his friend.
This invaluable friend was a very young woman, and very lately married.
A resemblance in good-humour and good spirits had recommended her and Lydia to each other, and out of their three months' acquaintance they had been intimate two.
The rapture of Lydia on this occasion, her adoration of Mrs. Forster, the delight of Mrs. Bennet, and the mortification of Kitty, are scarcely to be described.
In vain did Elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable, and Jane to make her resigned.
"Already arisen!" repeated Mr. Bennet.
Such squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a little absurdity are not worth a regret.
I have no such injuries to resent.
It is not of peculiar, but of general evils, which I am now complaining.
Our importance, our respectability in the world, must be affected by the wild volatility, the assurance and disdain of all restraint which mark Lydia's character.
Excuse me,--for I must speak plainly.
In this danger Kitty is also comprehended.
She will follow wherever Lydia leads.
Vain, ignorant, idle, and absolutely uncontrolled!
We shall have no peace at Longbourn if Lydia does not go to Brighton.
At Brighton she will be of less importance even as a common flirt than she has been here.
The officers will find women better worth their notice.
Let us hope, therefore, that her being there may teach her her own insignificance.
With this answer Elizabeth was forced to be content; but her own opinion continued the same, and she left him disappointed and sorry.
It was not in her nature, however, to increase her vexations by dwelling on them.
She was confident of having performed her duty; and to fret over unavoidable evils, or augment them by anxiety, was no part of her disposition.
Had Lydia and her mother known the substance of her conference with her father, their indignation would hardly have found expression in their united volubility.
In Lydia's imagination, a visit to Brighton comprised every possibility of earthly happiness.
She saw, with the creative eye of fancy, the streets of that gay bathing-place covered with officers.
She saw herself the object of attention to tens and to scores of them at present unknown.
Had she known that her sister sought to tear her from such prospects and such realities as these, what would have been her sensations?
They could have been understood only by her mother, who might have felt nearly the same.
Lydia's going to Brighton was all that consoled her for the melancholy conviction of her husband's never intending to go there himself.
But they were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and their raptures continued, with little intermission, to the very day of Lydia's leaving home.
Elizabeth was now to see Mr. Wickham for the last time.
Having been frequently in company with him since her return, agitation was pretty well over; the agitations of former partiality entirely so.
She had even learnt to detect, in the very gentleness which had first delighted her, an affectation and a sameness to disgust and weary.
Her answer was warmly in his favour.
With an air of indifference, he soon afterwards added, "How long did you say that he was at Rosings?"
"And you saw him frequently?"
"His manners are very different from his cousin's."
"Yes, very different; but I think Mr. Darcy improves on acquaintance."
"Indeed!" cried Wickham, with a look which did not escape her.
"In essentials, I believe, he is very much what he ever was."
While she spoke, Wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to rejoice over her words or to distrust their meaning.
Elizabeth could not repress a smile at this, but she answered only by a slight inclination of the head.
She saw that he wanted to engage her on the old subject of his grievances, and she was in no humour to indulge him.
When the party broke up, Lydia returned with Mrs. Forster to Meryton, from whence they were to set out early the next morning.
The separation between her and her family was rather noisy than pathetic.
Kitty was the only one who shed tears; but she did weep from vexation and envy.
Had Elizabeth's opinion been all drawn from her own family, she could not have formed a very pleasing picture of conjugal felicity or domestic comfort.
Respect, esteem, and confidence had vanished for ever; and all his views of domestic happiness were overthrown.
He was fond of the country and of books; and from these tastes had arisen his principal enjoyments.
To his wife he was very little otherwise indebted than as her ignorance and folly had contributed to his amusement.
Elizabeth, however, had never been blind to the impropriety of her father's behaviour as a husband.
When Elizabeth had rejoiced over Wickham's departure, she found little other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment.
Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment would be certain.
But here, by carrying with me one ceaseless source of regret in my sister's absence, I may reasonably hope to have all my expectations of pleasure realized.
After the first fortnight or three weeks of her absence, health, good-humour, and cheerfulness began to reappear at Longbourn.
Everything wore a happier aspect.
The families who had been in town for the winter came back again, and summer finery and summer engagements arose.
In that county there was enough to be seen to occupy the chief of their three weeks; and to Mrs. Gardiner it had a peculiarly strong attraction.
Elizabeth was excessively disappointed: she had set her heart on seeing the Lakes; and still thought there might have been time enough.
But it was her business to be satisfied--and certainly her temper to be happy; and all was soon right again.
With the mention of Derbyshire, there were many ideas connected.
It was impossible for her to see the word without thinking of Pemberley and its owner.
"But surely," said she, "I may enter his county with impunity, and rob it of a few petrified spars, without his perceiving me."
The period of expectation was now doubled.
Four weeks were to pass away before her uncle and aunt's arrival.
But they did pass away, and Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, with their four children, did at length appear at Longbourn.
The Gardiners stayed only one night at Longbourn, and set off the next morning with Elizabeth in pursuit of novelty and amusement.
A small part of Derbyshire is all the present concern.
It was not in their direct road; nor more than a mile or two out of it.
In talking over their route the evening before, Mrs. Gardiner expressed an inclination to see the place again.
Mr. Gardiner declared his willingness, and Elizabeth was applied to for her approbation.
"My love, should not you like to see a place of which you have heard so much?" said her aunt.
She felt that she had no business at Pemberley, and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing it.
She must own that she was tired of great houses: after going over so many, she really had no pleasure in fine carpets or satin curtains.
Mrs. Gardiner abused her stupidity.
Elizabeth said no more; but her mind could not acquiesce.
The possibility of meeting Mr. Darcy, while viewing the place, instantly occurred.
She blushed at the very idea; and thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt, than to run such a risk.
To Pemberley, therefore, they were to go.
The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground.
They entered it in one of its lowest points, and drove for some time through a beautiful wood stretching over a wide extent.
Elizabeth's mind was too full for conversation, but she saw and admired every remarkable spot and point of view.
Its banks were neither formal nor falsely adorned.
She had never seen a place for which nature had done more, or where natural beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste.
They were all of them warm in their admiration; and at that moment she felt that to be mistress of Pemberley might be something!
She dreaded lest the chambermaid had been mistaken.
The housekeeper came; a respectable looking elderly woman, much less fine, and more civil, than she had any notion of finding her.
They followed her into the dining-parlour.
It was a large, well-proportioned room, handsomely fitted up.
Elizabeth, after slightly surveying it, went to a window to enjoy its prospect.
The hill, crowned with wood, from which they had descended, receiving increased abruptness from the distance, was a beautiful object.
As they passed into other rooms, these objects were taking different positions; but from every window there were beauties to be seen.
With these rooms I might have now been familiarly acquainted!
Instead of viewing them as a stranger, I might have rejoiced in them as my own, and welcomed to them as visitors my uncle and aunt.
This was a lucky recollection--it saved her from something like regret.
She longed to inquire of the housekeeper whether her master were really absent, but had not courage for it.
How rejoiced was Elizabeth that their own journey had not by any circumstance been delayed a day!
Her aunt now called her to look at a picture.
She approached, and saw the likeness of Mr. Wickham, suspended, amongst several other miniatures, over the mantel-piece.
Her aunt asked her, smilingly, how she liked it.
"He is now gone into the army," she added; "but I am afraid he has turned out very wild."
Mrs. Gardiner looked at her niece with a smile, but Elizabeth could not return it.
Mrs. Reynolds' respect for Elizabeth seemed to increase on this intimation of her knowing her master.
"Does that young lady know Mr. Darcy?"
Elizabeth coloured, and said, "A little."
"And do not you think him a very handsome gentleman, ma'am?"
This room was my late master's favourite room, and these miniatures are just as they used to be then.
This accounted to Elizabeth for Mr. Wickham's being among them.
Mrs. Reynolds then directed their attention to one of Miss Darcy, drawn when she was only eight years old.
"And is Miss Darcy as handsome as her brother?" said Mr. Gardiner.
She plays and sings all day long.
"Is your master much at Pemberley in the course of the year?"
"Except," thought Elizabeth, "when she goes to Ramsgate."
"If your master would marry, you might see more of him."
Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner smiled.
Elizabeth could not help saying, "It is very much to his credit, I am sure, that you should think so."
"I say no more than the truth, and what everybody will say that knows him," replied the other.
This was praise of all others most extraordinary, most opposite to her ideas.
That he was not a good-tempered man had been her firmest opinion.
If I were to go through the world, I could not meet with a better.
Elizabeth almost stared at her.
"Can this be Mr. Darcy?" thought she.
"His father was an excellent man," said Mrs. Gardiner.
"Yes, ma'am, that he was indeed; and his son will be just like him--just as affable to the poor."
Elizabeth listened, wondered, doubted, and was impatient for more.
Mrs. Reynolds could interest her on no other point.
She related the subjects of the pictures, the dimensions of the rooms, and the price of the furniture in vain.
Not like the wild young men now-a-days, who think of nothing but themselves.
There is not one of his tenants or servants but what will give him a good name.
Some people call him proud; but I am sure I never saw anything of it.
"In what an amiable light does this place him!" thought Elizabeth.
"This fine account of him," whispered her aunt as they walked, "is not quite consistent with his behaviour to our poor friend."
"Perhaps we might be deceived."
"That is not very likely; our authority was too good."
"He is certainly a good brother," said Elizabeth, as she walked towards one of the windows.
Mrs. Reynolds anticipated Miss Darcy's delight, when she should enter the room.
"And this is always the way with him," she added.
The picture gallery, and two or three of the principal bed-rooms, were all that remained to be shown.
In the gallery there were many family portraits, but they could have little to fix the attention of a stranger.
Elizabeth walked on in quest of the only face whose features would be known to her.
She stood several minutes before the picture, in earnest contemplation, and returned to it again before they quitted the gallery.
Mrs. Reynolds informed them, that it had been taken in his father's lifetime.
There was certainly at this moment, in Elizabeth's mind, a more gentle sensation towards the original than she had ever felt in the height of their acquaintance.
The commendation bestowed on him by Mrs. Reynolds was of no trifling nature.
What praise is more valuable than the praise of an intelligent servant?
As a brother, a landlord, a master, she considered how many people's happiness were in his guardianship!
How much of pleasure or pain it was in his power to bestow!
How much of good or evil must be done by him!
They were within twenty yards of each other; and so abrupt was his appearance, that it was impossible to avoid his sight.
Their eyes instantly met, and the cheeks of each were overspread with the deepest blush.
She had instinctively turned away; but stopping on his approach, received his compliments with an embarrassment impossible to be overcome.
At length, every idea seemed to fail him; and after standing a few moments without saying a word, he suddenly recollected himself, and took leave.
She was overpowered by shame and vexation.
Her coming there was the most unfortunate, the most ill-judged thing in the world!
How strange must it appear to him!
In what a disgraceful light might it not strike so vain a man!
It might seem as if she had purposely thrown herself in his way again!
Oh! why did she come? or, why did he thus come a day before he was expected?
She blushed again and again over the perverseness of the meeting.
And his behaviour, so strikingly altered,--what could it mean?
That he should even speak to her was amazing!--but to speak with such civility, to inquire after her family!
Never in her life had she seen his manners so little dignified, never had he spoken with such gentleness as on this unexpected meeting.
What a contrast did it offer to his last address in Rosings Park, when he put his letter into her hand!
She knew not what to think, or how to account for it.
Her thoughts were all fixed on that one spot of Pemberley House, whichever it might be, where Mr. Darcy then was.
Perhaps he had been civil only because he felt himself at ease; yet there had been that in his voice, which was not like ease.
Whether he had felt more of pain or of pleasure in seeing her, she could not tell, but he certainly had not seen her with composure.
At length, however, the remarks of her companions on her absence of mind roused her, and she felt the necessity of appearing more like herself.
Mr. Gardiner expressed a wish of going round the whole park, but feared it might be beyond a walk.
With a triumphant smile, they were told, that it was ten miles round.
The walk being here less sheltered than on the other side, allowed them to see him before they met.
For a few moments, indeed, she felt that he would probably strike into some other path.
The idea lasted while a turning in the walk concealed him from their view; the turning past, he was immediately before them.
Her colour changed, and she said no more.
Mrs. Gardiner was standing a little behind; and on her pausing, he asked her if she would do him the honour of introducing him to her friends.
Elizabeth could not but be pleased, could not but triumph.
It was consoling that he should know she had some relations for whom there was no need to blush.
Mrs. Gardiner, who was walking arm in arm with Elizabeth, gave her a look expressive of her wonder.
Elizabeth said nothing, but it gratified her exceedingly; the compliment must be all for herself.
From what can it proceed?
It cannot be for me, it cannot be for my sake that his manners are thus softened.
My reproofs at Hunsford could not work such a change as this.
It originated in Mrs. Gardiner, who, fatigued by the exercise of the morning, found Elizabeth's arm inadequate to her support, and consequently preferred her husband's.
Mr. Darcy took her place by her niece, and they walked on together.
After a short silence the lady first spoke.
"They will join me early to-morrow," he continued, "and among them are some who will claim an acquaintance with you,--Mr. Bingley and his sisters."
Elizabeth answered only by a slight bow.
The surprise of such an application was great indeed; it was too great for her to know in what manner she acceded to it.
They now walked on in silence; each of them deep in thought.
Elizabeth was not comfortable; that was impossible; but she was flattered and pleased.
His wish of introducing his sister to her was a compliment of the highest kind.
They soon outstripped the others; and when they had reached the carriage, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were half a quarter of a mile behind.
He then asked her to walk into the house--but she declared herself not tired, and they stood together on the lawn.
At such a time much might have been said, and silence was very awkward.
She wanted to talk, but there seemed an embargo on every subject.
At last she recollected that she had been travelling, and they talked of Matlock and Dovedale with great perseverance.
Yet time and her aunt moved slowly--and her patience and her ideas were nearly worn out before the tête-à-tête was over.
Mr. Darcy handed the ladies into the carriage; and when it drove off, Elizabeth saw him walking slowly towards the house.
The observations of her uncle and aunt now began; and each of them pronounced him to be infinitely superior to anything they had expected.
"He is perfectly well-behaved, polite, and unassuming," said her uncle.
It was more than civil; it was really attentive; and there was no necessity for such attention.
"But perhaps he may be a little whimsical in his civilities," replied her uncle.
Elizabeth felt that they had entirely mistaken his character, but said nothing.
He has not an ill-natured look.
On the contrary, there is something pleasing about his mouth when he speaks.
And there is something of dignity in his countenance, that would not give one an unfavourable idea of his heart.
But, to be sure, the good lady who showed us the house did give him a most flaming character!
I could hardly help laughing aloud sometimes.
But her conclusion was false; for on the very morning after their own arrival at Lambton these visitors came.
While these newly-born notions were passing in their heads, the perturbation of Elizabeth's feelings was every moment increasing.
Miss Darcy and her brother appeared, and this formidable introduction took place.
With astonishment did Elizabeth see that her new acquaintance was at least as much embarrassed as herself.
She found it difficult to obtain even a word from her beyond a monosyllable.
Miss Darcy was tall, and on a larger scale than Elizabeth; and, though little more than sixteen, her figure was formed, and her appearance womanly and graceful.
She was less handsome than her brother, but there was sense and good-humour in her face, and her manners were perfectly unassuming and gentle.
Elizabeth, who had expected to find in her as acute and unembarrassed an observer as ever Mr. Darcy had been, was much relieved by discerning such different feelings.
He inquired in a friendly, though general, way, after her family, and looked and spoke with the same good-humoured ease that he had ever done.
To Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner he was scarcely a less interesting personage than to herself.
They had long wished to see him.
The whole party before them, indeed, excited a lively attention.
Of the lady's sensations they remained a little in doubt; but that the gentleman was overflowing with admiration was evident enough.
Elizabeth, on her side, had much to do.
Bingley was ready, Georgiana was eager, and Darcy determined, to be pleased.
But, though this might be imaginary, she could not be deceived as to his behaviour to Miss Darcy, who had been set up as a rival to Jane.
No look appeared on either side that spoke particular regard.
Nothing occurred between them that could justify the hopes of his sister.
There was not much in the question, nor in the preceding remark; but there was a look and a manner which gave them meaning.
Miss Darcy, though with a diffidence which marked her little in the habit of giving invitations, readily obeyed.
But she had no reason to fear Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner's curiosity; it was not their wish to force her communication.
They saw much to interest, but nothing to justify inquiry.
Of Mr. Darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think well; and, as far as their acquaintance reached, there was no fault to find.
Neither had anything occurred in the intelligence of their Lambton friends that could materially lessen its weight.
It was acknowledged, however, that he was a liberal man, and did much good among the poor.
She certainly did not hate him.
No; hatred had vanished long ago, and she had almost as long been ashamed of ever feeling a dislike against him, that could be so called.
But above all, above respect and esteem, there was a motive within her of good-will which could not be overlooked.
They were, therefore, to go.
Elizabeth was pleased; though when she asked herself the reason, she had very little to say in reply.
Mr. Gardiner left them soon after breakfast.
The fishing scheme had been renewed the day before, and a positive engagement made of his meeting some of the gentlemen at Pemberley by noon.
On reaching the house, they were shown through the hall into the saloon, whose northern aspect rendered it delightful for summer.
In this room they were received by Miss Darcy, who was sitting there with Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley, and the lady with whom she lived in London.
Mrs. Gardiner and her niece, however, did her justice, and pitied her.
Elizabeth soon saw that she was herself closely watched by Miss Bingley, and that she could not speak a word, especially to Miss Darcy, without calling her attention.
She answered with equal indifference and brevity, and the other said no more.
Not a syllable had ever reached her of Miss Darcy's meditated elopement.
But Georgiana would not join her.
When Darcy returned to the saloon, Miss Bingley could not help repeating to him some part of what she had been saying to his sister.
She is grown so brown and coarse!
Her face is too thin; her complexion has no brilliancy; and her features are not at all handsome.
Her nose wants character; there is nothing marked in its lines.
I should as soon call her mother a wit.'
He then went away, and Miss Bingley was left to all the satisfaction of having forced him to say what gave no one any pain but herself.
Mrs. Gardiner and Elizabeth talked of all that had occurred during their visit, as they returned, except what had particularly interested them both.
The looks and behaviour of everybody they had seen were discussed, except of the person who had mostly engaged their attention.
Elizabeth was not surprised at it, as Jane had written the direction remarkably ill.
They had just been preparing to walk as the letters came in; and her uncle and aunt, leaving her to enjoy them in quiet, set off by themselves.
The one mis-sent must be first attended to; it had been written five days ago.
What I have to say relates to poor Lydia.
To Kitty, however, it does not seem so wholly unexpected.
So imprudent a match on both sides!
But I am willing to hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood.
Thoughtless and indiscreet I can easily believe him, but this step (and let us rejoice over it) marks nothing bad at heart.
His choice is disinterested at least, for he must know my father can give her nothing.
Our poor mother is sadly grieved.
My father bears it better.
How thankful am I, that we never let them know what has been said against him; we must forget it ourselves.
They were off Saturday night about twelve, as is conjectured, but were not missed till yesterday morning at eight.
The express was sent off directly.
My dear Lizzy, they must have passed within ten miles of us.
Colonel Forster gives us reason to expect him here soon.
Lydia left a few lines for his wife, informing her of their intention.
I must conclude, for I cannot be long from my poor mother.
Dearest Lizzy, I hardly know what I would write, but I have bad news for you, and it cannot be delayed.
Colonel Forster came yesterday, having left Brighton the day before, not many hours after the express.
All that is known after this is, that they were seen to continue the London road.
I know not what to think.
With the kindest concern he came on to Longbourn, and broke his apprehensions to us in a manner most creditable to his heart.
I am sincerely grieved for him and Mrs. F.; but no one can throw any blame on them.
Our distress, my dear Lizzy, is very great.
My father and mother believe the worst, but I cannot think so ill of him.
My poor mother is really ill, and keeps her room.
Poor Kitty has anger for having concealed their attachment; but as it was a matter of confidence, one cannot wonder.
I am not so selfish, however, as to press for it, if inconvenient.
I know my dear uncle and aunt so well, that I am not afraid of requesting it, though I have still something more to ask of the former.
My father is going to London with Colonel Forster instantly, to try to discover her.
Elizabeth hesitated; but her knees trembled under her, and she felt how little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them.
Is there nothing you could take to give you present relief?
A glass of wine; shall I get you one?
"No, I thank you," she replied, endeavouring to recover herself.
She burst into tears as she alluded to it, and for a few minutes could not speak another word.
concern, and observe her in compassionate silence.
At length she spoke again.
It cannot be concealed from anyone.
My youngest sister has left all her friends--has eloped; has thrown herself into the power of--of Mr. Wickham.
They are gone off together from Brighton.
You know him too well to doubt the rest.
Darcy was fixed in astonishment.
Had I but explained some part of it only--some part of what I learnt, to my own family!
Had his character been known, this could not have happened.
"And what has been done, what has been attempted, to recover her?"
But nothing can be done; I know very well that nothing can be done.
How is such a man to be worked on?
How are they even to be discovered?
I have not the smallest hope.
Darcy shook his head in silent acquiescence.
But I knew not--I was afraid of doing too much.
He seemed scarcely to hear her, and was walking up and down the room in earnest meditation; his brow contracted, his air gloomy.
Elizabeth soon observed, and instantly understood it.
Her power was sinking; everything must sink under such a proof of family weakness, such an assurance of the deepest disgrace.
She could neither wonder nor condemn; but the belief of his self-conquest brought nothing consolatory to her bosom, afforded no palliation of her distress.
But self, though it would intrude, could not engross her.
Would to Heaven that anything could be either said or done on my part, that might offer consolation to such distress!
But I will not torment you with vain wishes, which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks.
Be so kind as to apologize for us to Miss Darcy.
Say that urgent business calls us home immediately.
Conceal the unhappy truth as long as it is possible.
If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection, Elizabeth's change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor faulty.
Never since reading Jane's second letter had she entertained a hope of Wickham's meaning to marry her.
No one but Jane, she thought, could flatter herself with such an expectation.
Surprise was the least of all her feelings on this development.
But now it was all too natural.
Sometimes one officer, sometimes another, had been her favourite, as their attentions raised them in her opinion.
Her affections had been continually fluctuating, but never without an object.
The mischief of neglect and mistaken indulgence towards such a girl--oh! how acutely did she now feel it!
Though Lydia had never been a favourite with them, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner could not but be deeply affected.
Not Lydia only, but all were concerned in it; and after the first exclamations of surprise and horror, Mr. Gardiner readily promised every assistance in his power.
They were to be off as soon as possible.
"But what is to be done about Pemberley?" cried Mrs. Gardiner.
"John told us Mr. Darcy was here when you sent for us;--was it so?"
"What is all settled?" repeated the other, as she ran into her room to prepare.
But wishes were vain; or, at best, could serve only to amuse her in the hurry and confusion of the following hour.
Could he expect that her friends would not step forward?
Could he expect to be noticed again by the regiment, after such an affront to Colonel Forster?
"Do you really think so?" cried Elizabeth, brightening up for a moment.
It is really too great a violation of decency, honour, and interest, for him to be guilty of it.
I cannot think so very ill of Wickham.
But of every other neglect I can believe him capable.
If, indeed, it should be so!
"In the first place," replied Mr. Gardiner, "there is no absolute proof that they are not gone to Scotland."
Why any fear of detection?
Why must their marriage be private?
Oh, no, no--this is not likely.
His most particular friend, you see by Jane's account, was persuaded of his never intending to marry her.
Wickham will never marry a woman without some money.
But as to your other objection, I am afraid it will hardly hold good.
"But can you think that Lydia is so lost to everything but love of him, as to consent to live with him on any other terms than marriage?"
But, really, I know not what to say.
Perhaps I am not doing her justice.
She has been allowed to dispose of her time in the most idle and frivolous manner, and to adopt any opinions that came in her way.
Since the ----shire were first quartered in Meryton, nothing but love, flirtation, and officers, have been in her head.
"But you see that Jane," said her aunt, "does not think so ill of Wickham, as to believe him capable of the attempt."
And who is there, whatever might be their former conduct, that she would believe capable of such an attempt, till it were proved against them?
But Jane knows, as well as I do, what Wickham really is.
"And do you really know all this?" cried Mrs. Gardiner, whose curiosity as to the mode of her intelligence was all alive.
"I do, indeed," replied Elizabeth, colouring.
And there are other circumstances which I am not at liberty--which it is not worth while to relate; but his lies about the whole Pemberley family are endless.
From what he said of Miss Darcy, I was thoroughly prepared to see a proud, reserved, disagreeable girl.
Yet he knew to the contrary himself.
"But does Lydia know nothing of this? can she be ignorant of what you and Jane seem so well to understand?"
Till I was in Kent, and saw so much both of Mr. Darcy and his relation Colonel Fitzwilliam, I was ignorant of the truth myself.
And when I returned home the ----shire was to leave Meryton in a week or fortnight's time.
And even when it was settled that Lydia should go with Mrs. Forster, the necessity of opening her eyes to his character never occurred to me.
That she could be in any danger from the deception never entered my head.
"When they all removed to Brighton, therefore, you had no reason, I suppose, to believe them fond of each other?"
When first he entered the corps, she was ready enough to admire him; but so we all were.
From Elizabeth's thoughts it was never absent.
Fixed there by the keenest of all anguish, self-reproach, she could find no interval of ease or forgetfulness.
They travelled as expeditiously as possible; and sleeping one night on the road, reached Longbourn by dinnertime the next day.
It was a comfort to Elizabeth to consider that Jane could not have been wearied by long expectations.
Elizabeth, as she affectionately embraced her, whilst tears filled the eyes of both, lost not a moment in asking whether anything had been heard of the fugitives.
"But now that my dear uncle is come, I hope everything will be well."
"Yes, he went on Tuesday, as I wrote you word."
"And have you heard from him often?"
She is upstairs, and will have great satisfaction in seeing you all.
She does not yet leave her dressing-room.
"But you--how are you?" cried Elizabeth.
Jane ran to her uncle and aunt, and welcomed and thanked them both, with alternate smiles and tears.
Why did the Forsters ever let her go out of their sight?
I always thought they were very unfit to have the charge of her; but I was over-ruled, as I always am.
It is not quite a week since they left Brighton.
And now do, when you get to town, find them out, wherever they may be; and if they are not married already, make them marry.
And, above all things, keep Mr. Bennet from fighting.
And tell my dear Lydia not to give any directions about her clothes till she has seen me, for she does not know which are the best warehouses.
Oh, brother, how kind you are!
In the dining-room they were soon joined by Mary and Kitty, who had been too busily engaged in their separate apartments to make their appearance before.
One came from her books, and the other from her toilette.
Elizabeth lifted up her eyes in amazement, but was too much oppressed to make any reply.
Mary, however, continued to console herself with such kind of moral extractions from the evil before them.
What did Colonel Forster say?
Had they no apprehension of anything before the elopement took place?
His behaviour was attentive and kind to the utmost.
Did he know of their intending to go off?
"And till Colonel Forster came himself, not one of you entertained a doubt, I suppose, of their being really married?"
I felt a little uneasy--a little fearful of my sister's happiness with him in marriage, because I knew that his conduct had not been always quite right.
My father and mother knew nothing of that; they only felt how imprudent a match it must be.
"But not before they went to Brighton?"
"Oh, Jane, had we been less secret, had we told what we knew of him, this could not have happened!"
"Perhaps it would have been better," replied her sister.
"But to expose the former faults of any person, without knowing what their present feelings were, seemed unjustifiable."
"We acted with the best intentions."
"Could Colonel Forster repeat the particulars of Lydia's note to his wife?"
"He brought it with him for us to see."
Jane then took it from her pocket-book, and gave it to Elizabeth.
I should never be happy without him, so think it no harm to be off.
What a good joke it will be!
I can hardly write for laughing.
Pray make my excuses to Pratt for not keeping my engagement, and dancing with him to-night.
Give my love to Colonel Forster.
I hope you will drink to our good journey.
"Oh, thoughtless, thoughtless Lydia!" cried Elizabeth when she had finished it.
But at least it shows that she was serious in the object of her journey.
Whatever he might afterwards persuade her to, it was not on her side a scheme of infamy.
He could not speak a word for full ten minutes.
"Oh, Jane," cried Elizabeth, "was there a servant belonging to it who did not know the whole story before the end of the day?"
But to be guarded at such a time is very difficult.
Kitty is slight and delicate, and Mary studies so much that her hours of repose should not be broken in on.
My aunt Philips came to Longbourn on Tuesday, after my father went away; and was so good as to stay till Thursday with me.
Assistance is impossible; condolence, insufferable.
She then proceeded to inquire into the measures which her father had intended to pursue, while in town, for the recovery of his daughter.
His principal object must be to discover the number of the hackney coach which took them from Clapham.
The whole party were in hopes of a letter from Mr. Bennet the next morning, but the post came in without bringing a single line from him.
His family knew him to be, on all common occasions, a most negligent and dilatory correspondent; but at such a time they had hoped for exertion.
They were forced to conclude, that he had no pleasing intelligence to send; but even of that they would have been glad to be certain.
Mr. Gardiner had waited only for the letters before he set off.
Mrs. Gardiner and the children were to remain in Hertfordshire a few days longer, as the former thought her presence might be serviceable to her nieces.
She shared in their attendance on Mrs. Bennet, and was a great comfort to them in their hours of freedom.
All Meryton seemed striving to blacken the man who, but three months before, had been almost an angel of light.
Everybody declared that he was the wickedest young man in the world; and everybody began to find out that they had always distrusted the appearance of his goodness.
Mr. Gardiner himself did not expect any success from this measure; but as his brother was eager in it, he meant to assist him in pursuing it.
He added, that Mr. Bennet seemed wholly disinclined at present to leave London, and promised to write again very soon.
If there were anyone that one could apply to, with a probability of gaining such a clue as that, it might be of essential consequence.
At present we have nothing to guide us.
Colonel Forster will, I dare say, do everything in his power to satisfy us on this head.
She had never heard of his having had any relations, except a father and mother, both of whom had been dead many years.
Every day at Longbourn was now a day of anxiety; but the most anxious part of each was when the post was expected.
The arrival of letters was the first grand object of every morning's impatience.
Through letters, whatever of good or bad was to be told would be communicated; and every succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance.
The death of your daughter would have been a blessing in comparison of this.
"I am, dear sir," etc., etc.
Mr. Gardiner did not write again, till he had received an answer from Colonel Forster; and then he had nothing of a pleasant nature to send.
It was not known that Wickham had a single relation with whom he kept up any connection, and it was certain that he had no near one living.
There was no one, therefore, who could be pointed out as likely to give any news of him.
Colonel Forster believed that more than a thousand pounds would be necessary to clear his expenses at Brighton.
He owed a good deal in the town, but his debts of honour were still more formidable.
Mr. Gardiner did not attempt to conceal these particulars from the Longbourn family; Jane heard them with horror.
"This is wholly unexpected; I had not an idea of it."
Mr. Gardiner added, in his letter, that they might expect to see their father at home on the following day, which was Saturday.
When Mrs. Bennet was told of this, she did not express so much satisfaction as her children expected, considering what her anxiety for his life had been before.
"What! is he coming home, and without poor Lydia?" she cried.
The coach, therefore, took them the first stage of their journey, and brought its master back to Longbourn.
Mrs. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and her Derbyshire friend, that had attended her from that part of the world.
Elizabeth had received none since her return, that could come from Pemberley.
It would have spared her, she thought, one sleepless night out of two.
When Mr. Bennet arrived, he had all the appearance of his usual philosophic composure.
Who should suffer but myself?
"You must not be too severe upon yourself," replied Elizabeth.
Human nature is so prone to fall into it!
No, Lizzy, let me once in my life feel how much I have been to blame.
I am not afraid of being overpowered by the impression.
"Do you suppose them to be in London?"
"Yes; where else can they be so well concealed?"
"And Lydia used to want to go to London," added Kitty.
"She is happy, then," said her father, drily; "and her residence there will probably be of some duration."
They were interrupted by Miss Bennet, who came to fetch her mother's tea.
"I am not going to run away, papa," said Kitty, fretfully.
"If I should ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lydia."
I would not trust you so near it as Eastbourne, for fifty pounds!
No, Kitty, I have at least learnt to be cautious, and you will feel the effects of it.
No officer is ever to enter my house again, nor even to pass through the village.
Balls will be absolutely prohibited, unless you stand up with one of your sisters.
Kitty, who took all these threats in a serious light, began to cry.
Away ran the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech.
"If you are looking for my master, ma'am, he is walking towards the little copse."
"Oh, papa, what news? what news? have you heard from my uncle?"
"Yes, I have had a letter from him by express."
"Well, and what news does it bring--good or bad?"
"What is there of good to be expected?" said he, taking the letter from his pocket; "but perhaps you would like to read it."
Elizabeth impatiently caught it from his hand.
"Read it aloud," said their father, "for I hardly know myself what it is about."
Soon after you left me on Saturday, I was fortunate enough to find out in what part of London they were.
The particulars I reserve till we meet.
"Then it is as I always hoped," cried Jane: "they are married!"
These are conditions which, considering everything, I had no hesitation in complying with, as far as I thought myself privileged, for you.
I shall send this by express, that no time may be lost in bringing me your answer.
You will easily comprehend, from these particulars, that Mr. Wickham's circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to be.
There will not be the smallest occasion for your coming to town again; therefore stay quietly at Longbourn, and depend on my diligence and care.
Send back your answer as soon as you can, and be careful to write explicitly.
We have judged it best that my niece should be married from this house, of which I hope you will approve.
I shall write again as soon as anything more is determined on.
"Is it possible?" cried Elizabeth, when she had finished.
"Can it be possible that he will marry her?"
"Wickham is not so undeserving, then, as we have thought him," said her sister.
"My dear father, I congratulate you."
"And have you answered the letter?" said Elizabeth.
"No; but it must be done soon."
Most earnestly did she then entreat him to lose no more time before he wrote.
"Let me write for you," said Jane, "if you dislike the trouble yourself."
"I dislike it very much," he replied; "but it must be done."
And so saying, he turned back with them, and walked towards the house.
"And--may I ask?" said Elizabeth; "but the terms, I suppose, must be complied with."
There is nothing else to be done.
"Money! my uncle!" cried Jane, "what do you mean, sir?"
His debts to be discharged, and something still to remain!
Oh, it must be my uncle's doings!
Generous, good man, I am afraid he has distressed himself.
Mr. Bennet made no answer; and each of them, deep in thought, continued silent till they reached the house.
Their father then went to the library to write, and the girls walked into the breakfast-room.
"And they are really to be married!" cried Elizabeth, as soon as they were by themselves.
That they should marry, small as is their chance of happiness, and wretched as is his character, we are forced to rejoice!
Though our kind uncle has done something towards clearing him, I cannot believe that ten thousand pounds, or anything like it, has been advanced.
He has children of his own, and may have more.
The kindness of my uncle and aunt can never be requited.
Their taking her home, and affording her their personal protection and countenance, is such a sacrifice to her advantage as years of gratitude cannot enough acknowledge.
By this time she is actually with them!
If such goodness does not make her miserable now, she will never deserve to be happy!
His consenting to marry her is a proof, I will believe, that he is come to a right way of thinking.
It now occurred to the girls that their mother was in all likelihood perfectly ignorant of what had happened.
They went to the library, therefore, and asked their father whether he would not wish them to make it known to her.
"May we take my uncle's letter to read to her?"
"Take whatever you like, and get away."
Elizabeth took the letter from his writing-table, and they went upstairs together.
Mary and Kitty were both with Mrs. Bennet: one communication would, therefore, do for all.
After a slight preparation for good news, the letter was read aloud.
Mrs. Bennet could hardly contain herself.
As soon as Jane had read Mr. Gardiner's hope of Lydia's being soon married, her joy burst forth, and every following sentence added to its exuberance.
She was now in an irritation as violent from delight as she had ever been fidgety from alarm and vexation.
To know that her daughter would be married was enough.
She was disturbed by no fear for her felicity, nor humbled by any remembrance of her misconduct.
She will be married at sixteen!
I knew how it would be--I knew he would manage everything.
How I long to see her! and to see dear Wickham too!
But the clothes, the wedding clothes!
I will write to my sister Gardiner about them directly.
Lizzy, my dear, run down to your father, and ask him how much he will give her.
Stay, stay, I will go myself.
Ring the bell, Kitty, for Hill.
I will put on my things in a moment.
In a short time, I shall have a daughter married.
And she was only sixteen last June.
My dear Jane, I am in such a flutter, that I am sure I can't write; so I will dictate, and you write for me.
One day's delay, she observed, would be of small importance; and her mother was too happy to be quite so obstinate as usual.
Other schemes, too, came into her head.
And as I come back, I can call on Lady Lucas and Mrs. Long.
Kitty, run down and order the carriage.
An airing would do me a great deal of good, I am sure.
Girls, can I do anything for you in Meryton?
My dear Hill, have you heard the good news?
Mrs. Hill began instantly to express her joy.
Elizabeth received her congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this folly, took refuge in her own room, that she might think with freedom.
Poor Lydia's situation must, at best, be bad enough; but that it was no worse, she had need to be thankful.
He now wished it more than ever.
The satisfaction of prevailing on one of the most worthless young men in Great Britain to be her husband might then have rested in its proper place.
When first Mr. Bennet had married, economy was held to be perfectly useless; for, of course, they were to have a son.
Five daughters successively entered the world, but yet the son was to come; and Mrs. Bennet, for many years after Lydia's birth, had been certain that he would.
This event had at last been despaired of, but it was then too late to be saving.
Mrs. Bennet had no turn for economy; and her husband's love of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their income.
Five thousand pounds was settled by marriage articles on Mrs. Bennet and the children.
But in what proportions it should be divided amongst the latter depended on the will of the parents.
When the first transports of rage which had produced his activity in seeking her were over, he naturally returned to all his former indolence.
His letter was soon despatched; for though dilatory in undertaking business, he was quick in its execution.
He begged to know further particulars of what he was indebted to his brother; but was too angry with Lydia to send any message to her.
The good news quickly spread through the house; and with proportionate speed through the neighbourhood.
It was borne in the latter with decent philosophy.
No sentiment of shame gave a damp to her triumph.
Her husband allowed her to talk on without interruption while the servants remained.
Into one house in this neighbourhood they shall never have admittance.
He protested that she should receive from him no mark of affection whatever on the occasion.
Mrs. Bennet could hardly comprehend it.
She had no fear of its spreading farther, through his means.
Not, however, from any fear of disadvantage from it individually to herself; for at any rate there seemed a gulf impassable between them.
From such a connection she could not wonder that he should shrink.
The wish of procuring her regard, which she had assured herself of his feeling in Derbyshire, could not in rational expectation survive such a blow as this.
She was humbled, she was grieved; she repented, though she hardly knew of what.
She became jealous of his esteem, when she could no longer hope to be benefited by it.
She wanted to hear of him, when there seemed the least chance of gaining intelligence.
She was convinced that she could have been happy with him, when it was no longer likely they should meet.
He was as generous, she doubted not, as the most generous of his sex.
But while he was mortal, there must be a triumph.
She began now to comprehend that he was exactly the man who, in disposition and talents, would most suit her.
His understanding and temper, though unlike her own, would have answered all her wishes.
But no such happy marriage could now teach the admiring multitude what connubial felicity really was.
An union of a different tendency, and precluding the possibility of the other, was soon to be formed in their family.
How Wickham and Lydia were to be supported in tolerable independence she could not imagine.
Mr. Gardiner soon wrote again to his brother.
The principal purport of his letter was to inform them, that Mr. Wickham had resolved on quitting the militia.
And I think you will agree with me, in considering a removal from that corps as highly advisable, both on his account and my niece's.
He has the promise of an ensigncy in General----'s regiment, now quartered in the north.
It is an advantage to have it so far from this part of the kingdom.
He promises fairly; and I hope among different people, where they may each have a character to preserve, they will both be more prudent.
And will you give yourself the trouble of carrying similar assurances to his creditors in Meryton, of whom I shall subjoin a list, according to his information?
He has given in all his debts; I hope at least he has not deceived us.
Haggerston has our directions, and all will be completed in a week.
She is well, and begs to be dutifully remembered to you and her mother.--Yours, etc.
Mr. Bennet and his daughters saw all the advantages of Wickham's removal from the ----shire, as clearly as Mr. Gardiner could do.
But Mrs. Bennet was not so well pleased with it.
And there are several of the young men, too, that she likes very much.
And their mother had the satisfaction of knowing, that she should be able to show her married daughter in the neighbourhood, before she was banished to the north.
Their sister's wedding-day arrived; and Jane and Elizabeth felt for her probably more than she felt for herself.
The carriage was sent to meet them at----, and they were to return in it by dinnertime.
The family were assembled in the breakfast-room to receive them.
Smiles decked the face of Mrs. Bennet, as the carriage drove up to the door; her husband looked impenetrably grave; her daughters, alarmed, anxious, uneasy.
Lydia's voice was heard in the vestibule; the door was thrown open, and she ran into the room.
Their reception from Mr. Bennet, to whom they then turned, was not quite so cordial.
His countenance rather gained in austerity; and he scarcely opened his lips.
The easy assurance of the young couple, indeed, was enough to provoke him.
Elizabeth was disgusted, and even Miss Bennet was shocked.
Lydia was Lydia still; untamed, unabashed, wild, noisy, and fearless.
She blushed, and Jane blushed; but the cheeks of the two who caused their confusion suffered no variation of colour.
There was no want of discourse.
They seemed each of them to have the happiest memories in the world.
Nothing of the past was recollected with pain; and Lydia led voluntarily to subjects which her sisters would not have alluded to for the world.
Elizabeth could bear it no longer.
She got up and ran out of the room; and returned no more, till she heard them passing through the hall to the dining-parlour.
"Ah, Jane, I take your place now, and you must go lower, because I am a married woman."
It was not to be supposed that time would give Lydia that embarrassment from which she had been so wholly free at first.
Her ease and good spirits increased.
Is not he a charming man?
I am sure my sisters must all envy me.
I only hope they may have half my good luck.
They must all go to Brighton.
That is the place to get husbands.
But, my dear Lydia, I don't at all like your going such a way off.
I shall like it of all things.
You and papa, and my sisters, must come down and see us.
"I should like it beyond anything!" said her mother.
"I thank you for my share of the favour," said Elizabeth; "but I do not particularly like your way of getting husbands."
Their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them.
Mr. Wickham had received his commission before he left London, and he was to join his regiment at the end of a fortnight.
These parties were acceptable to all; to avoid a family circle was even more desirable to such as did think than such as did not.
Wickham's affection for Lydia was just what Elizabeth had expected to find it; not equal to Lydia's for him.
Lydia was exceedingly fond of him.
He was her dear Wickham on every occasion; no one was to be put in competition with him.
He did everything best in the world; and she was sure he would kill more birds on the first of September than anybody else in the country.
You were not by, when I told mamma, and the others, all about it.
"No, really," replied Elizabeth; "I think there cannot be too little said on the subject."
But I must tell you how it went off.
We were married, you know, at St. Clement's, because Wickham's lodgings were in that parish.
And it was settled that we should all be there by eleven o'clock.
My uncle and aunt and I were to go together; and the others were to meet us at the church.
I was so afraid, you know, that something would happen to put it off, and then I should have gone quite distracted.
And there was my aunt, all the time I was dressing, preaching and talking away just as if she was reading a sermon.
However, I did not hear above one word in ten, for I was thinking, you may suppose, of my dear Wickham.
I longed to know whether he would be married in his blue coat.
If you'll believe me, I did not once put my foot out of doors, though I was there a fortnight.
Not one party, or scheme, or anything!
To be sure, London was rather thin, but, however, the Little Theatre was open.
And then, you know, when once they get together, there is no end of it.
But, luckily, he came back again in ten minutes' time, and then we all set out.
"Mr. Darcy!" repeated Elizabeth, in utter amazement.
I ought not to have said a word about it.
I promised them so faithfully!
"Oh, certainly," said Elizabeth, though burning with curiosity; "we will ask you no questions."
"Thank you," said Lydia; "for if you did, I should certainly tell you all, and then Wickham would be so angry."
On such encouragement to ask, Elizabeth was forced to put it out of her power, by running away.
But to live in ignorance on such a point was impossible; or at least it was impossible not to try for information.
Mr. Darcy had been at her sister's wedding.
It was exactly a scene, and exactly among people, where he had apparently least to do, and least temptation to go.
Conjectures as to the meaning of it, rapid and wild, hurried into her brain; but she was satisfied with none.
Those that best pleased her, as placing his conduct in the noblest light, seemed most improbable.
Elizabeth had the satisfaction of receiving an answer to her letter as soon as she possibly could.
I must confess myself surprised by your application; I did not expect it from you.
Don't think me angry, however, for I only mean to let you know, that I had not imagined such inquiries to be necessary on your side.
If you do not choose to understand me, forgive my impertinence.
But if you are really innocent and ignorant, I must be more explicit.
On the very day of my coming home from Longbourn, your uncle had a most unexpected visitor.
Mr. Darcy called, and was shut up with him several hours.
It was all over before I arrived; so my curiosity was not so dreadfully racked as yours seems to have been.
From what I can collect, he left Derbyshire only one day after ourselves, and came to town with the resolution of hunting for them.
He generously imputed the whole to his mistaken pride, and confessed that he had before thought it beneath him to lay his private actions open to the world.
His character was to speak for itself.
He called it, therefore, his duty to step forward, and endeavour to remedy an evil which had been brought on by himself.
If he had another motive, I am sure it would never disgrace him.
She then took a large house in Edward Street, and has since maintained herself by letting lodgings.
This Mrs. Younge was, he knew, intimately acquainted with Wickham; and he went to her for intelligence of him, as soon as he got to town.
But it was two or three days before he could get from her what he wanted.
She would not betray her trust, I suppose, without bribery and corruption, for she really did know where her friend was to be found.
At length, however, our kind friend procured the wished-for direction.
They were in ---- Street.
He saw Wickham, and afterwards insisted on seeing Lydia.
But he found Lydia absolutely resolved on remaining where she was.
She cared for none of her friends; she wanted no help of his; she would not hear of leaving Wickham.
She was sure they should be married some time or other, and it did not much signify when.
He meant to resign his commission immediately; and as to his future situation, he could conjecture very little about it.
He must go somewhere, but he did not know where, and he knew he should have nothing to live on.
Mr. Darcy asked why he did not marry your sister at once.
But he found, in reply to this question, that Wickham still cherished the hope of more effectually making his fortune by marriage, in some other country.
Under such circumstances, however, he was not likely to be proof against the temptation of immediate relief.
They met several times, for there was much to be discussed.
Wickham, of course, wanted more than he could get; but at length was reduced to be reasonable.
But Mr. Gardiner could not be seen; and Mr. Darcy found, on further inquiry, that your father was still with him, but would quit town the next morning.
He did not leave his name, and till the next day it was only known that a gentleman had called on business.
On Saturday he came again.
Your father was gone, your uncle at home, and, as I said before, they had a great deal of talk together.
They met again on Sunday, and then I saw him too.
It was not all settled before Monday: as soon as it was, the express was sent off to Longbourn.
But our visitor was very obstinate.
I fancy, Lizzy, that obstinacy is the real defect of his character, after all.
He has been accused of many faults at different times; but this is the true one.
They battled it together for a long time, which was more than either the gentleman or lady concerned in it deserved.
But, Lizzy, this must go no further than yourself, or Jane at most.
You know pretty well, I suppose, what has been done for the young people.
The reason why all this was to be done by him alone, was such as I have given above.
Perhaps there was some truth in this; though I doubt whether his reserve, or anybody's reserve can be answerable for the event.
I believe I have now told you everything.
It is a relation which you tell me is to give you great surprise; I hope at least it will not afford you any displeasure.
Lydia came to us, and Wickham had constant admission to the house.
If she heard me, it was by good luck, for I am sure she did not listen.
I was sometimes quite provoked; but then I recollected my dear Elizabeth and Jane, and for their sakes had patience with her.
Mr. Darcy was punctual in his return, and, as Lydia informed you, attended the wedding.
He dined with us the next day, and was to leave town again on Wednesday or Thursday.
His behaviour to us has, in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire.
His understanding and opinions all please me; he wants nothing but a little more liveliness, and that, if he marry prudently, his wife may teach him.
I thought him very sly; he hardly ever mentioned your name.
But slyness seems the fashion.
Pray forgive me, if I have been very presuming, or at least do not punish me so far as to exclude me from P.
I shall never be quite happy till I have been all round the park.
A low phaeton with a nice little pair of ponies would be the very thing.
But I must write no more.
The children have been wanting me this half hour.
The contents of this letter threw Elizabeth into a flutter of spirits, in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure or pain bore the greatest share.
He had done all this for a girl whom he could neither regard nor esteem.
Her heart did whisper that he had done it for her.
Every kind of pride must revolt from the connection.
He had, to be sure, done much.
She was ashamed to think how much.
But he had given a reason for his interference, which asked no extraordinary stretch of belief.
It was painful, exceedingly painful, to know that they were under obligations to a person who could never receive a return.
They owed the restoration of Lydia, her character, everything to him.
Oh, how heartily did she grieve over every ungracious sensation she had ever encouraged, every saucy speech she had ever directed towards him!
She read over her aunt's commendation of him again and again.
It was hardly enough; but it pleased her.
She was roused from her seat and her reflections, by someone's approach; and, before she could strike into another path, she was overtaken by Wickham.
"I am afraid I interrupt your solitary ramble, my dear sister?" said he, as he joined her.
"You certainly do," she replied with a smile; "but it does not follow that the interruption must be unwelcome."
Mrs. Bennet and Lydia are going in the carriage to Meryton.
She replied in the affirmative.
And you saw the old housekeeper, I suppose?
Poor Reynolds, she was always very fond of me.
"Certainly," he replied, biting his lips.
We passed each other several times.
"Perhaps preparing for his marriage with Miss de Bourgh," said Elizabeth.
"It must be something particular to take him there at this time of year."
Did you see him while you were at Lambton?
"Yes; he introduced us to his sister."
When I last saw her, she was not very promising.
I am very glad you liked her.
"I dare say she will; she has got over the most trying age."
"Did you go by the village of Kympton?"
"I do not recollect that we did."
"How should you have liked making sermons?"
I should have considered it as part of my duty, and the exertion would soon have been nothing.
One ought not to repine; but, to be sure, it would have been such a thing for me!
The quiet, the retirement of such a life, would have answered all my ideas of happiness!
"I have heard from authority, which I thought as good, that it was left you conditionally only, and at the will of the present patron."
Do not let us quarrel about the past.
She held out her hand: he kissed it with affectionate gallantry, though he hardly knew how to look, and they entered the house.
"Oh, my dear Lydia," she cried, "when shall we meet again?"
"Write to me very often, my dear."
But you know married women have never much time for writing.
My sisters may write to me.
Mr. Wickham's adieus were much more affectionate than his wife's.
He smiled, looked handsome, and said many pretty things.
He simpers, and smirks, and makes love to us all.
I am prodigiously proud of him.
The loss of her daughter made Mrs. Bennet very dull for several days.
"This is the consequence, you see, madam, of marrying a daughter," said Elizabeth.
"It must make you better satisfied that your other four are single."
Lydia does not leave me because she is married; but only because her husband's regiment happens to be so far off.
Mrs. Bennet was quite in the fidgets.
She looked at Jane, and smiled, and shook her head, by turns.
"Well, well, and so Mr. Bingley is coming down, sister," (for Mrs. Philips first brought her the news).
Not that I care about it, though.
He is nothing to us, you know, and I am sure I never want to see him again.
But, however, he is very welcome to come to Netherfield, if he likes it.
And who knows what may happen?
But that is nothing to us.
You know, sister, we agreed long ago never to mention a word about it.
He comes down on Thursday, at the latest, very likely on Wednesday.
Miss Bennet had not been able to hear of his coming without changing colour.
I was only confused for the moment, because I felt that I should be looked at.
I do assure you that the news does not affect me either with pleasure or pain.
I am glad of one thing, that he comes alone; because we shall see the less of him.
Elizabeth did not know what to make of it.
They were more disturbed, more unequal, than she had often seen them.
The subject which had been so warmly canvassed between their parents, about a twelvemonth ago, was now brought forward again.
"As soon as ever Mr. Bingley comes, my dear," said Mrs. Bennet, "you will wait on him, of course."
You forced me into visiting him last year, and promised, if I went to see him, he should marry one of my daughters.
His wife represented to him how absolutely necessary such an attention would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen, on his returning to Netherfield.
"'Tis an etiquette I despise," said he.
But, however, that shan't prevent my asking him to dine here, I am determined.
We must have Mrs. Long and the Gouldings soon.
"I begin to be sorry that he comes at all," said Jane to her sister.
My mother means well; but she does not know, no one can know, how much I suffer from what she says.
She counted the days that must intervene before their invitation could be sent--hopeless of seeing him before.
But on the third morning after his arrival in Hertfordshire, she saw him from her dressing-room window enter the paddock, and ride towards the house.
Her daughters were eagerly called to partake of her joy.
"There is a gentleman with him, mamma," said Kitty; "who can it be?"
"Some acquaintance or other, my dear, I suppose; I am sure I do not know."
Mr. Darcy!--and so it does, I vow.
Jane looked at Elizabeth with surprise and concern.
Both sisters were uncomfortable enough.
"Let me first see how he behaves," said she; "it will then be early enough for expectation."
Jane looked a little paler than usual, but more sedate than Elizabeth had expected.
Elizabeth said as little to either as civility would allow, and sat down again to her work, with an eagerness which it did not often command.
She had ventured only one glance at Darcy.
He looked serious as usual; and, she thought, more as he had been used to look in Hertfordshire, than as she had seen him at Pemberley.
But, perhaps, he could not in her mother's presence be what he was before her uncle and aunt.
It was a painful, but not an improbable, conjecture.
Bingley she had likewise seen for an instant, and in that short period saw him looking both pleased and embarrassed.
Darcy, after inquiring of her how Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner did--a question which she could not answer without confusion--said scarcely anything.
He was not seated by her: perhaps that was the reason of his silence; but it had not been so in Derbyshire.
There he had talked to her friends when he could not to herself.
More thoughtfulness and less anxiety to please, than when they last met, were plainly expressed.
She was disappointed, and angry with herself for being so.
"Could I expect it to be otherwise?" said she.
She was in no humour for conversation with anyone but himself; and to him she had hardly courage to speak.
She inquired after his sister, but could do no more.
"It is a long time, Mr. Bingley, since you went away," said Mrs. Bennet.
People did say, you meant to quit the place entirely at Michaelmas; but, however, I hope it is not true.
A great many changes have happened in the neighbourhood since you went away.
Miss Lucas is married and settled: and one of my own daughters.
I suppose you have heard of it; indeed, you must have seen it in the papers.
It was in the 'Times' and the 'Courier,' I know; though it was not put in as it ought to be.
It was my brother Gardiner's drawing up, too, and I wonder how he came to make such an awkward business of it.
Bingley replied that he did, and made his congratulations.
Elizabeth dared not lift up her eyes.
How Mr. Darcy looked, therefore, she could not tell.
They are gone down to Newcastle, a place quite northward it seems, and there they are to stay, I do not know how long.
His regiment is there; for I suppose you have heard of his leaving the ----shire, and of his being gone into the Regulars.
Elizabeth, who knew this to be levelled at Mr. Darcy, was in such misery of shame that she could hardly keep her seat.
A few weeks, he believed.
Elizabeth's misery increased at such unnecessary, such officious attention!
Were the same fair prospect to arise at present, as had flattered them a year ago, everything, she was persuaded, would be hastening to the same vexatious conclusion.
At that instant she felt, that years of happiness could not make Jane or herself amends for moments of such painful confusion.
Their society can afford no pleasure that will atone for such wretchedness as this!
When first he came in, he had spoken to her but little, but every five minutes seemed to be giving her more of his attention.
He found her as handsome as she had been last year; as good-natured, and as unaffected, though not quite so chatty.
Bingley looked a little silly at this reflection, and said something of his concern at having been prevented by business.
Mr. Darcy's behaviour astonished and vexed her.
"Why, if he came only to be silent, grave, and indifferent," said she, "did he come at all?"
She could settle it in no way that gave her pleasure.
If he fears me, why come hither?
If he no longer cares for me, why silent?
I know my own strength, and I shall never be embarrassed again by his coming.
I am glad he dines here on Tuesday.
"Yes, very indifferent, indeed," said Elizabeth, laughingly.
"My dear Lizzy, you cannot think me so weak as to be in danger now."
"I think you are in very great danger of making him as much in love with you as ever."
Her prudent mother, occupied by the same ideas, forbore to invite him to sit by herself.
On entering the room, he seemed to hesitate; but Jane happened to look round, and happened to smile: it was decided.
He placed himself by her.
Elizabeth, with a triumphant sensation, looked towards his friend.
Though she dared not depend upon the consequence, she yet received pleasure from observing his behaviour.
It gave her all the animation that her spirits could boast; for she was in no cheerful humour.
Mr. Darcy was almost as far from her as the table could divide them.
He was on one side of her mother.
She knew how little such a situation would give pleasure to either, or make either appear to advantage.
Anxious and uneasy, the period which passed in the drawing-room before the gentlemen came, was wearisome and dull to a degree that almost made her uncivil.
She looked forward to their entrance as the point on which all her chance of pleasure for the evening must depend.
"If he does not come to me, then," said she, "I shall give him up for ever."
Darcy had walked away to another part of the room.
How could I ever be foolish enough to expect a renewal of his love?
Is there one among the sex who would not protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to the same woman?
"Is your sister at Pemberley still?"
"Yes; she will remain there till Christmas."
She could think of nothing more to say; but if he wished to converse with her, he might have better success.
He stood by her, however, for some minutes, in silence; and, at last, on the young lady's whispering to Elizabeth again, he walked away.
She now lost every expectation of pleasure.
I think everything has passed off uncommonly well, I assure you.
The dinner was as well dressed as any I ever saw.
The venison was roasted to a turn--and everybody said, they never saw so fat a haunch.
And, my dear Jane, I never saw you look in greater beauty.
Mrs. Long said so too, for I asked her whether you did not.
And what do you think she said besides?
Mrs. Bennet, we shall have her at Netherfield at last!'
"It has been a very agreeable day," said Miss Bennet to Elizabeth.
I assure you that I have now learnt to enjoy his conversation as an agreeable and sensible young man without having a wish beyond it.
I am perfectly satisfied, from what his manners now are, that he never had any design of engaging my affection.
"You are very cruel," said her sister, "you will not let me smile, and are provoking me to it every moment."
And how impossible in others!
We all love to instruct, though we can teach only what is not worth knowing.
A few days after this visit, Mr. Bingley called again, and alone.
His friend had left him that morning for London, but was to return home in ten days' time.
He sat with them above an hour, and was in remarkably good spirits.
Mrs. Bennet invited him to dine with them; but, with many expressions of concern, he confessed himself engaged elsewhere.
"Next time you call," said she, "I hope we shall be more lucky."
He should be particularly happy at any time, etc., etc.; and if she would give him leave, would take an early opportunity of waiting on them.
Yes, he had no engagement at all for to-morrow; and her invitation was accepted with alacrity.
He came, and in such very good time, that the ladies were none of them dressed.
He is come--Mr. Bingley is come.
Here, Sarah, come to Miss Bennet this moment, and help her on with her gown.
But when her mother was gone, Jane would not be prevailed on to go down without one of her sisters.
The same anxiety to get them by themselves was visible again in the evening.
After tea, Mr. Bennet retired to the library, as was his custom, and Mary went upstairs to her instrument.
What do you keep winking at me for?
"Come here, my love, I want to speak to you," took her out of the room.
Jane instantly gave a look at Elizabeth which spoke her distress at such premeditation, and her entreaty that she would not give in to it.
"Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak with you."
Elizabeth was forced to go.
"We may as well leave them by themselves, you know," said her mother as soon as she was in the hall.
"Kitty and I are going upstairs to sit in my dressing-room."
Elizabeth made no attempt to reason with her mother, but remained quietly in the hall till she and Kitty were out of sight, then returned into the drawing-room.
Mrs. Bennet's schemes for this day were ineffectual.
Bingley was everything that was charming, except the professed lover of her daughter.
After this day, Jane said no more of her indifference.
Seriously, however, she felt tolerably persuaded that all this must have taken place with that gentleman's concurrence.
Bingley was punctual to his appointment; and he and Mr. Bennet spent the morning together, as had been agreed on.
The latter was much more agreeable than his companion expected.
Bingley of course returned with him to dinner; and in the evening Mrs. Bennet's invention was again at work to get everybody away from him and her daughter.
Their situation was awkward enough; but hers she thought was still worse.
Elizabeth's congratulations were given with a sincerity, a warmth, a delight, which words could but poorly express.
Every sentence of kindness was a fresh source of happiness to Jane.
But she would not allow herself to stay with her sister, or say half that remained to be said, for the present.
"I must go instantly to my mother," she cried.
He is gone to my father already.
She then hastened away to her mother, who had purposely broken up the card-party, and was sitting upstairs with Kitty.
In a few minutes she was joined by Bingley, whose conference with her father had been short and to the purpose.
"Where is your sister?" said he hastily, as he opened the door.
He then shut the door, and, coming up to her, claimed the good wishes and affection of a sister.
Elizabeth honestly and heartily expressed her delight in the prospect of their relationship.
Kitty simpered and smiled, and hoped her turn was coming soon.
Jane went to him instantly, kissed him, and thanked him for his goodness.
I have not a doubt of your doing very well together.
Your tempers are by no means unlike.
My dear Mr. Bennet," cried his wife, "what are you talking of?
I am sure I shan't get a wink of sleep all night.
I always said it must be so, at last.
I was sure you could not be so beautiful for nothing!
I remember, as soon as ever I saw him, when he first came into Hertfordshire last year, I thought how likely it was that you should come together.
Wickham, Lydia, were all forgotten.
Jane was beyond competition her favourite child.
At that moment she cared for no other.
Her younger sisters soon began to make interest with her for objects of happiness which she might in future be able to dispense.
Mary petitioned for the use of the library at Netherfield; and Kitty begged very hard for a few balls there every winter.
"I suspected as much," replied Elizabeth.
"But how did he account for it?"
They were certainly no friends to his acquaintance with me, which I cannot wonder at, since he might have chosen so much more advantageously in many respects.
"He made a little mistake, to be sure; but it is to the credit of his modesty."
This naturally introduced a panegyric from Jane on his diffidence, and the little value he put on his own good qualities.
"I am certainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed!" cried Jane.
If I could but see you as happy!
Till I have your disposition, your goodness, I never can have your happiness.
The situation of affairs in the Longbourn family could not be long a secret.
Mrs. Bennet was privileged to whisper it to Mrs. Philips, and she ventured, without any permission, to do the same by all her neighbours in Meryton.
It was too early in the morning for visitors; and besides, the equipage did not answer to that of any of their neighbours.
The horses were post; and neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who preceded it, were familiar to them.
They both set off; and the conjectures of the remaining three continued, though with little satisfaction, till the door was thrown open, and their visitor entered.
It was Lady Catherine de Bourgh.
Elizabeth had mentioned her name to her mother on her Ladyship's entrance, though no request of introduction had been made.
Mrs. Bennet, all amazement, though flattered by having a guest of such high importance, received her with the utmost politeness.
Elizabeth replied very concisely that she was.
"And that, I suppose, is one of your sisters?"
"Yes, madam," said Mrs. Bennet, delighted to speak to a Lady Catherine.
"You have a very small park here," returned Lady Catherine, after a short silence.
"It is nothing in comparison of Rosings, my Lady, I dare say; but, I assure you, it is much larger than Sir William Lucas's."
"This must be a most inconvenient sitting-room for the evening in summer: the windows are full west."
"May I take the liberty of asking your Ladyship whether you left Mr. and Mrs. Collins well?"
Elizabeth now expected that she would produce a letter for her from Charlotte, as it seemed the only probable motive for her calling.
But no letter appeared, and she was completely puzzled.
Elizabeth obeyed; and, running into her own room for her parasol, attended her noble guest downstairs.
Her carriage remained at the door, and Elizabeth saw that her waiting-woman was in it.
"How could I ever think her like her nephew?" said she, as she looked in her face.
Elizabeth looked with unaffected astonishment.
"Indeed, you are mistaken, madam; I have not been at all able to account for the honour of seeing you here."
But however insincere you may choose to be, you shall not find me so.
My character has ever been celebrated for its sincerity and frankness; and in a cause of such moment as this, I shall certainly not depart from it.
A report of a most alarming nature reached me two days ago.
"At once to insist upon having such a report universally contradicted."
"Your coming to Longbourn, to see me and my family," said Elizabeth coolly, "will be rather a confirmation of it--if, indeed, such a report is in existence."
Has it not been industriously circulated by yourselves?
"I never heard that it was."
"And can you likewise declare, that there is no foundation for it?"
Miss Bennet, I insist on being satisfied.
"Your Ladyship has declared it to be impossible."
But your arts and allurements may, in a moment of infatuation, have made him forget what he owes to himself and to all his family.
"If I have, I shall be the last person to confess it."
I have not been accustomed to such language as this.
"But you are not entitled to know mine; nor will such behaviour as this ever induce me to be explicit."
This match, to which you have the presumption to aspire, can never take place.
Mr. Darcy is engaged to my daughter.
"Only this,--that if he is so, you can have no reason to suppose he will make an offer to me."
From their infancy, they have been intended for each other.
It was the favourite wish of his mother, as well as of hers.
Do you pay no regard to the wishes of his friends--to his tacit engagement with Miss de Bourgh?
Are you lost to every feeling of propriety and delicacy?
You both did as much as you could in planning the marriage.
Its completion depended on others.
If Mr. Darcy is neither by honour nor inclination confined to his cousin, why is not he to make another choice?
Yes, Miss Bennet, interest; for do not expect to be noticed by his family or friends, if you wilfully act against the inclinations of all.
You will be censured, slighted, and despised, by everyone connected with him.
"These are heavy misfortunes," replied Elizabeth.
Is this your gratitude for my attentions to you last spring?
Is nothing due to me on that score?
You are to understand, Miss Bennet, that I came here with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose; nor will I be dissuaded from it.
I have not been used to submit to any person's whims.
"That will make your Ladyship's situation at present more pitiable; but it will have no effect on me."
My daughter and my nephew are formed for each other.
They are descended, on the maternal side, from the same noble line; and, on the father's, from respectable, honourable, and ancient, though untitled, families.
Their fortune on both sides is splendid.
But it must not, shall not be!
You are a gentleman's daughter.
But what was your mother?
Who are your uncles and aunts?
"Whatever my connections may be," said Elizabeth, "if your nephew does not object to them, they can be nothing to you."
"Tell me, once for all, are you engaged to him?"
"And will you promise me never to enter into such an engagement?"
"I will make no promise of the kind."
I expected to find a more reasonable young woman.
But do not deceive yourself into a belief that I will ever recede.
I am not to be intimidated into anything so wholly unreasonable.
Your Ladyship wants Mr. Darcy to marry your daughter; but would my giving you the wished-for promise make their marriage at all more probable?
Supposing him to be attached to me, would my refusing to accept his hand make him wish to bestow it on his cousin?
Allow me to say, Lady Catherine, that the arguments with which you have supported this extraordinary application have been as frivolous as the application was ill-judged.
You have widely mistaken my character, if you think I can be worked on by such persuasions as these.
How far your nephew might approve of your interference in his affairs, I cannot tell; but you have certainly no right to concern yourself in mine.
To all the objections I have already urged I have still another to add.
I am no stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister's infamous elopement.
I know it all; that the young man's marrying her was a patched-up business, at the expense of your father and uncle.
And is such a girl to be my nephew's sister?
Is her husband, who is the son of his late father's steward, to be his brother?
Heaven and earth!--of what are you thinking?
"You can now have nothing further to say," she resentfully answered.
And she rose as she spoke.
Lady Catherine rose also, and they turned back.
Her Ladyship was highly incensed.
"You are then resolved to have him?"
You refuse, then, to oblige me.
You refuse to obey the claims of duty, honour, and gratitude.
No principle of either would be violated by my marriage with Mr. Darcy.
This is your final resolve!
I shall now know how to act.
Do not imagine, Miss Bennet, that your ambition will ever be gratified.
I send no compliments to your mother.
You deserve no such attention.
Elizabeth made no answer; and without attempting to persuade her Ladyship to return into the house, walked quietly into it herself.
She heard the carriage drive away as she proceeded upstairs.
Her mother impatiently met her at the door of her dressing-room, to ask why Lady Catherine would not come in again and rest herself.
"She did not choose it," said her daughter; "she would go."
She is on her road somewhere, I dare say; and so, passing through Meryton, thought she might as well call on you.
Elizabeth was forced to give in to a little falsehood here; for to acknowledge the substance of their conversation was impossible.
Lady Catherine, it appeared, had actually taken the trouble of this journey from Rosings for the sole purpose of breaking off her supposed engagement with Mr. Darcy.
She had not herself forgotten to feel that the marriage of her sister must bring them more frequently together.
In revolving Lady Catherine's expressions, however, she could not help feeling some uneasiness as to the possible consequence of her persisting in this interference.
In that case he would return no more.
Lady Catherine might see him in her way through town; and his engagement to Bingley of coming again to Netherfield must give way.
I shall then give over every expectation, every wish of his constancy.
The next morning, as she was going down stairs, she was met by her father, who came out of his library with a letter in his hand.
"Lizzy," said he, "I was going to look for you: come into my room."
It suddenly struck her that it might be from Lady Catherine, and she anticipated with dismay all the consequent explanations.
She followed her father to the fireplace, and they both sat down.
As it principally concerns yourself, you ought to know its contents.
I did not know before that I had two daughters on the brink of matrimony.
Young ladies have great penetration in such matters as these; but I think I may defy even your sagacity to discover the name of your admirer.
"From Mr. Collins! and what can he have to say?"
He begins with congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter, of which, it seems, he has been told by some of the good-natured, gossiping Lucases.
I shall not sport with your impatience by reading what he says on that point.
Can you possibly guess, Lizzy, who is meant by this?
'This young gentleman is blessed, in a peculiar way, with everything the heart of mortal can most desire,--splendid property, noble kindred, and extensive patronage.
Have you any idea, Lizzy, who this gentleman is?
Mr. Darcy, you see, is the man!
Now, Lizzy, I think I have surprised you.
Mr. Darcy, who never looks at any woman but to see a blemish, and who probably never looked at you in his life!
Elizabeth tried to join in her father's pleasantry, but could only force one most reluctant smile.
Never had his wit been directed in a manner so little agreeable to her.
It was an encouragement of vice; and had I been the rector of Longbourn, I should very strenuously have opposed it.
You ought certainly to forgive them as a Christian, but never to admit them in your sight, or allow their names to be mentioned in your hearing.'
That is his notion of Christian forgiveness!
The rest of his letter is only about his dear Charlotte's situation, and his expectation of a young olive-branch.
But, Lizzy, you look as if you did not enjoy it.
You are not going to be missish, I hope, and pretend to be affronted at an idle report.
Had they fixed on any other man it would have been nothing; but his perfect indifference and your pointed dislike make it so delightfully absurd!
Much as I abominate writing, I would not give up Mr. Collins's correspondence for any consideration.
And pray, Lizzy, what said Lady Catherine about this report?
To this question his daughter replied only with a laugh; and as it had been asked without the least suspicion, she was not distressed by his repeating it.
Elizabeth had never been more at a loss to make her feelings appear what they were not.
It was necessary to laugh when she would rather have cried.
Mrs. Bennet was not in the habit of walking, Mary could never spare time, but the remaining five set off together.
Bingley and Jane, however, soon allowed the others to outstrip them.
They lagged behind, while Elizabeth, Kitty, and Darcy were to entertain each other.
I can no longer help thanking you for your unexampled kindness to my poor sister.
Ever since I have known it I have been most anxious to acknowledge to you how gratefully I feel it.
Lydia's thoughtlessness first betrayed to me that you had been concerned in the matter; and, of course, I could not rest till I knew the particulars.
That the wish of giving happiness to you might add force to the other inducements which led me on, I shall not attempt to deny.
But your family owe me nothing.
Elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word.
If your feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once.
They walked on without knowing in what direction.
There was too much to be thought, and felt, and said, for attention to any other objects.
But, unluckily for her Ladyship, its effect had been exactly contrariwise.
For though your accusations were ill-founded, formed on mistaken premises, my behaviour to you at the time had merited the severest reproof.
"We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening," said Elizabeth.
"The conduct of neither, if strictly examined, will be irreproachable; but since then we have both, I hope, improved in civility."
Your reproof, so well applied, I shall never forget: 'Had you behaved in a more gentlemanlike manner.'
You thought me then devoid of every proper feeling, I am sure you did.
These recollections will not do at all.
She explained what its effects on her had been, and how gradually all her former prejudices had been removed.
I hope you have destroyed the letter.
There was one part, especially the opening of it, which I should dread your having the power of reading again.
The adieu is charity itself.
But think no more of the letter.
You must learn some of my philosophy.
Your retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the contentment arising from them is not of philosophy, but, what is much better, of ignorance.
But with me, it is not so.
Painful recollections will intrude, which cannot, which ought not to be repelled.
I have been a selfish being all my life, in practice, though not in principle.
As a child I was taught what was right, but I was not taught to correct my temper.
I was given good principles, but left to follow them in pride and conceit.
Such I was, from eight to eight-and-twenty; and such I might still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest Elizabeth!
You taught me a lesson, hard indeed at first, but most advantageous.
By you, I was properly humbled.
I came to you without a doubt of my reception.
"Had you then persuaded yourself that I should?"
What will you think of my vanity?
I never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might often lead me wrong.
"No, indeed, I felt nothing but surprise."
She expressed her gratitude again, but it was too painful a subject to each to be dwelt on farther.
"What could have become of Mr. Bingley and Jane?" was a wonder which introduced the discussion of their affairs.
Darcy was delighted with their engagement; his friend had given him the earliest information of it.
"I must ask whether you were surprised?" said Elizabeth.
And though he exclaimed at the term, she found that it had been pretty much the case.
I told him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his affairs absurd and impertinent.
He had never had the slightest suspicion.
Elizabeth could not help smiling at his easy manner of directing his friend.
"Did you speak from your own observation," said she, "when you told him that my sister loved him, or merely from my information last spring?"
"And your assurance of it, I suppose, carried immediate conviction to him."
Bingley is most unaffectedly modest.
His diffidence had prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case, but his reliance on mine made everything easy.
I was obliged to confess one thing, which for a time, and not unjustly, offended him.
But his anger, I am persuaded, lasted no longer than he remained in any doubt of your sister's sentiments.
Elizabeth longed to observe that Mr. Bingley had been a most delightful friend; so easily guided that his worth was invaluable; but she checked herself.
She remembered that he had yet to learn to be laughed at, and it was rather too early to begin.
In anticipating the happiness of Bingley, which of course was to be inferior only to his own, he continued the conversation till they reached the house.
She had only to say in reply, that they had wandered about till she was beyond her own knowledge.
She coloured as she spoke; but neither that, nor anything else, awakened a suspicion of the truth.
The evening passed quietly, unmarked by anything extraordinary.
The acknowledged lovers talked and laughed; the unacknowledged were silent.
At night she opened her heart to Jane.
Though suspicion was very far from Miss Bennet's general habits, she was absolutely incredulous here.
My sole dependence was on you; and I am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not.
Yet, indeed, I am in earnest.
I speak nothing but the truth.
Jane looked at her doubtingly.
That is all to be forgot.
Perhaps I did not always love him so well as I do now; but in such cases as these a good memory is unpardonable.
Miss Bennet still looked all amazement.
Elizabeth again, and more seriously, assured her of its truth.
"My dear, dear Lizzy, I would, I do congratulate you; but are you certain--forgive the question--are you quite certain that you can be happy with him?"
It is settled between us already that we are to be the happiest couple in the world.
But are you pleased, Jane?
Nothing could give either Bingley or myself more delight.
But we considered it, we talked of it as impossible.
And do you really love him quite well enough?
Oh, Lizzy! do anything rather than marry without affection.
I want to talk very seriously.
Let me know everything that I am to know without delay.
Another entreaty that she would be serious, however, produced the desired effect; and she soon satisfied Jane by her solemn assurances of attachment.
When convinced on that article, Miss Bennet had nothing further to wish.
I always had a value for him.
But, Lizzy, you have been very sly, very reserved with me.
How little did you tell me of what passed at Pemberley and Lambton!
Elizabeth told her the motives of her secrecy.
All was acknowledged, and half the night spent in conversation.
What can he mean by being so tiresome as to be always coming here?
I had no notion but he would go a-shooting, or something or other, and not disturb us with his company.
What shall we do with him?
Elizabeth could hardly help laughing at so convenient a proposal; yet was really vexed that her mother should be always giving him such an epithet.
Kitty owned that she had rather stay at home.
Darcy professed a great curiosity to see the view from the Mount, and Elizabeth silently consented.
During their walk, it was resolved that Mr. Bennet's consent should be asked in the course of the evening: Elizabeth reserved to herself the application for her mother's.
In the evening, soon after Mr. Bennet withdrew to the library, she saw Mr. Darcy rise also and follow him, and her agitation on seeing it was extreme.
Her father was walking about the room, looking grave and anxious.
Are you out of your senses to be accepting this man?
How earnestly did she then wish that her former opinions had been more reasonable, her expressions more moderate!
He is rich, to be sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than Jane.
"Have you any other objection," said Elizabeth, "than your belief of my indifference?"
Indeed he has no improper pride.
He is the kind of man, indeed, to whom I should never dare refuse anything, which he condescended to ask.
I now give it to you, if you are resolved on having him.
But let me advise you to think better of it.
I know your disposition, Lizzy.
I know that you could be neither happy nor respectable, unless you truly esteemed your husband, unless you looked up to him as a superior.
Your lively talents would place you in the greatest danger in an unequal marriage.
You could scarcely escape discredit and misery.
My child, let me not have the grief of seeing you unable to respect your partner in life.
If this be the case, he deserves you.
To complete the favourable impression, she then told him what Mr. Darcy had voluntarily done for Lydia.
He heard her with astonishment.
And so, Darcy did everything; made up the match, gave the money, paid the fellow's debts, and got him his commission!
It will save me a world of trouble and economy.
Had it been your uncle's doing, I must and would have paid him; but these violent young lovers carry everything their own way.
When her mother went up to her dressing-room at night, she followed her, and made the important communication.
Its effect was most extraordinary; for, on first hearing it, Mrs. Bennet sat quite still, and unable to utter a syllable.
She began at length to recover, to fidget about in her chair, get up, sit down again, wonder, and bless herself.
Lord bless me! only think! dear me!
Who would have thought it?
Oh, my sweetest Lizzy! how rich and how great you will be!
What pin-money, what jewels, what carriages you will have!
Jane's is nothing to it--nothing at all.
I am so pleased--so happy.
Such a charming man! so handsome! so tall!
Oh, my dear Lizzy! pray apologize for my having disliked him so much before.
I hope he will overlook it.
Oh, Lord! what will become of me?
This was enough to prove that her approbation need not be doubted; and Elizabeth, rejoicing that such an effusion was heard only by herself, soon went away.
But before she had been three minutes in her own room, her mother followed her.
Ten thousand a year, and very likely more!
And a special licence--you must and shall be married by a special licence.
"I admire all my three sons-in-law highly," said he.
"Wickham, perhaps, is my favourite; but I think I shall like your husband quite as well as Jane's."
Elizabeth's spirits soon rising to playfulness again, she wanted Mr. Darcy to account for his having ever fallen in love with her.
"How could you begin?" said she.
"I can comprehend your going on charmingly, when you had once made a beginning; but what could set you off in the first place?"
"For the liveliness of your mind I did."
The fact is, that you were sick of civility, of deference, of officious attention.
You were disgusted with the women who were always speaking, and looking, and thinking for your approbation alone.
I roused and interested you, because I was so unlike them.
There--I have saved you the trouble of accounting for it; and really, all things considered, I begin to think it perfectly reasonable.
"Was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to Jane, while she was ill at Netherfield?"
But make a virtue of it by all means.
What made you so shy of me, when you first called, and afterwards dined here?
"Because you were grave and silent, and gave me no encouragement."
"You might have talked to me more when you came to dinner."
"A man who had felt less might."
But I wonder how long you would have gone on, if you had been left to yourself.
I wonder when you would have spoken if I had not asked you!
The moral will be perfectly fair.
Lady Catherine's unjustifiable endeavours to separate us were the means of removing all my doubts.
I am not indebted for my present happiness to your eager desire of expressing your gratitude.
I was not in a humour to wait for an opening of yours.
But tell me, what did you come down to Netherfield for?
"Shall you ever have courage to announce to Lady Catherine what is to befall her?"
You supposed more than really existed.
You must write again very soon, and praise him a great deal more than you did in your last.
I thank you again and again, for not going to the Lakes.
How could I be so silly as to wish it!
Your idea of the ponies is delightful.
We will go round the park every day.
I am the happiest creature in the world.
Perhaps other people have said so before, but no one with such justice.
I am happier even than Jane; she only smiles, I laugh.
Mr. Darcy sends you all the love in the world that can be spared from me.
You are all to come to Pemberley at Christmas.
Elizabeth will soon be the wife of Mr. Darcy.
Console Lady Catherine as well as you can.
But, if I were you, I would stand by the nephew.
Miss Bingley's congratulations to her brother on his approaching marriage were all that was affectionate and insincere.
She wrote even to Jane on the occasion, to express her delight, and repeat all her former professions of regard.
The joy which Miss Darcy expressed on receiving similar information was as sincere as her brother's in sending it.
Four sides of paper were insufficient to contain all her delight, and all her earnest desire of being loved by her sister.
The reason of this sudden removal was soon evident.
He bore it, however, with admirable calmness.
If he did shrug his shoulders, it was not till Sir William was out of sight.
Nor was her respect for him, though it made her more quiet, at all likely to make her more elegant.
Happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which Mrs. Bennet got rid of her two most deserving daughters.
With what delighted pride she afterwards visited Mrs. Bingley, and talked of Mrs. Darcy, may be guessed.
Mr. Bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly; his affection for her drew him oftener from home than anything else could do.
He delighted in going to Pemberley, especially when he was least expected.
Mr. Bingley and Jane remained at Netherfield only a twelvemonth.
So near a vicinity to her mother and Meryton relations was not desirable even to his easy temper, or her affectionate heart.
Kitty, to her very material advantage, spent the chief of her time with her two elder sisters.
In society so superior to what she had generally known, her improvement was great.
Mary was the only daughter who remained at home; and she was necessarily drawn from the pursuit of accomplishments by Mrs. Bennet's being quite unable to sit alone.
As for Wickham and Lydia, their characters suffered no revolution from the marriage of her sisters.
If you love Mr. Darcy half so well as I do my dear Wickham, you must be very happy.
It is a great comfort to have you so rich; and when you have nothing else to do, I hope you will think of us.
Any place would do of about three or four hundred a year; but, however, do not speak to Mr. Darcy about it, if you had rather not.
As it happened that Elizabeth had much rather not, she endeavoured in her answer to put an end to every entreaty and expectation of the kind.
Their manner of living, even when the restoration of peace dismissed them to a home, was unsettled in the extreme.
They were always moving from place to place in quest of a cheap situation, and always spending more than they ought.
Though Darcy could never receive him at Pemberley, yet, for Elizabeth's sake, he assisted him further in his profession.
Pemberley was now Georgiana's home; and the attachment of the sisters was exactly what Darcy had hoped to see.
They were able to love each other, even as well as they intended.
He, who had always inspired in herself a respect which almost overcame her affection, she now saw the object of open pleasantry.
Her mind received knowledge which had never before fallen in her way.
With the Gardiners they were always on the most intimate terms.
