---
address: luxembourg.government.court
description: Every court in Luxembourg. All of them. The list is short enough to print in full and that is the fact worth recording: a country of 694,000 people runs its entire judiciary from THREE towns — Luxembourg, Esch-sur-Alzette and Diekirch — with three justices of the peace at the bottom, two district courts above them, and one Cour supérieure de justice holding the Court of Cassation and the Court of Appeal together in a single institution. There is no regional appellate layer, because there is no region: the judicial map has exactly two arrondissements, Luxembourg and Diekirch. A pack for a neighbouring country would suggest dozens of tribunaux de grande instance and half a dozen cours d'appel; Luxembourg has one of each ladder and that is the whole system. Three things sit outside the judicial order and are constantly mistaken for part of it. The administrative order is entirely separate, with its own Tribunal administratif and its own Cour administrative, and an administrative case never touches the judicial courts. The social order — the Conseil arbitral and the Conseil supérieur de la sécurité sociale — hears social-security disputes and is separate again. And the Cour constitutionnelle stands apart from all of them, ruling only on whether a law conforms to the Constitution, referred to it by whichever court is hearing the case. The tribunaux du travail and the tribunaux de police are not separate courts either: they are the justices of the peace sitting in a different capacity. Two INTERNATIONAL courts are seated in Luxembourg and belong to nobody's national system — the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Benelux Court of Justice — and their presence is why "a court in Luxembourg" and "a Luxembourgish court" are not the same phrase. Source: justice.public.lu, Organisation de la justice.
locale: fr
---
Cour constitutionnelle
Cour supérieure de justice
Cour de cassation
Cour d'appel
Tribunal d'arrondissement de Luxembourg
Tribunal d'arrondissement de Diekirch
Justice de paix de Luxembourg
Justice de paix d'Esch-sur-Alzette
Justice de paix de Diekirch
Tribunal du travail de Luxembourg
Tribunal du travail d'Esch-sur-Alzette
Tribunal du travail de Diekirch
Tribunal de police de Luxembourg
Tribunal de police d'Esch-sur-Alzette
Tribunal de police de Diekirch
Tribunal administratif
Cour administrative
Conseil arbitral de la sécurité sociale
Conseil supérieur de la sécurité sociale
Parquet général
Parquet de Luxembourg
Parquet de Diekirch
