---
address: zimbabwe.tax.tin
description: ZIMRA Taxpayer Identification Number — the identifier the whole Zimbabwean tax system moved onto when TaRMS, the Tax and Revenue Management System, replaced SAP from October 2023, and the number that from 1 January 2024 must appear on every fiscal tax invoice, return and payment. It replaced the Business Partner number (zimbabwe.tax.bpNumber), and ZIMRA notified taxpayers of their new TIN individually rather than publishing a derivation, so the two cannot be converted into one another from outside. TWO THINGS ARE REFUSED HERE AND BOTH REFUSALS ARE DELIBERATE. First, THERE IS NO CHECK DIGIT: no weighted sum, no mod-11, no Luhn is published by ZIMRA or recoverable from published numbers, so this file computes nothing. A national ID in this pack carries a real check letter precisely because that algorithm IS knowable (see zimbabwe.docs.nationalId); the TIN's is not, and asserting a plausible one would be worse than asserting none, because it would look verified. Second, THE EXACT WIDTH IS NOT PUBLISHED EITHER. ZIMRA states the format nowhere on its site; commercial tax guides disagree with each other, some describing a nine-digit number and others a ten-digit one with a leading pair identifying the taxpayer class, and at least one ZIMRA-facing instruction has the old nine-digit BP number prefixed with a zero on migration, which would make ten. Ten digits is the commoner published claim and is what this file emits, and the disagreement is recorded here rather than hidden behind a confident regex. What IS documented, in ZIMRA's own Public Notice 68 of 2022 about the predecessor number, is nine digits with a leading 2 for local currency and 3 for forex — the one piece of firm ground, and it belongs to the BP number, not to the TIN. Anyone who needs a Zimbabwean tax number that will survive a real check must verify it on the TaRMS self-service portal; nothing generated offline can be made to.
generator: tdc
locale: en
---
<gen type="regex" value="[0-9]{10}"/>
