---
address: north_macedonia.language
description: The languages of North Macedonia, in Macedonian, and the note that explains why every value in this pack is written the way it is. THE COUNTRY IS CALLED NORTH MACEDONIA — Република Северна Македонија — since 12 February 2019, when the Prespa Agreement of 17 June 2018 came into force and the constitutional name changed erga omnes. "Macedonia" is not simply the old name to be search-and-replaced away; the agreement kept several things deliberately: the LANGUAGE is still Macedonian (македонски јазик), the NATIONALITY on a passport is still "Macedonian / citizen of the Republic of North Macedonia", the ISO 3166 codes are still MK and MKD, the currency is still the денар with code MKD, the top-level domain is still .mk, and the geographic region of Macedonia spans three countries. So a pack that scrubs every "Macedonia" is as wrong as one that never heard of the rename. What DID change: the vehicle country band went from MK to NMK in February 2019 (see north_macedonia.vehicle.plate), and the state bodies were renamed — Народна банка на Република Северна Македонија, Врховен суд на Република Северна Македонија. Legacy company names that predate 2019 keep the old form legitimately (Македонски Телеком, Македонска академија на науките и уметностите), which is why they are spelled that way in this pack and are not a mistake. MACEDONIAN IS THE OFFICIAL LANGUAGE and is written in CYRILLIC, with an alphabet of 31 letters that is NOT the Russian one and NOT the Serbian one. It has ѓ and ќ where Serbian has ђ and ћ; it has ѕ (dze), which no other living Slavic Cyrillic alphabet uses; and it shares ј, љ, њ and џ with Serbian while Russian has none of the six. A file of Macedonian values containing no ѓ, ќ, ѕ, љ, њ or џ is Russian or Serbian text under a Macedonian label. All six appear in the VALUES of this pack and not only in its prose, though not evenly, and the unevenness is the language's and not the pack's: ѓ is common (Ѓорче Петров, Меѓународен, Југозападен), њ is common (Боговиње, вработување, осигурување, Камењане), while ѕ is genuinely rare — perhaps a hundred native words use it — and lands here exactly once, in the village Ѕвегор in Општина Делчево. Anyone auditing this pack by counting letters should expect that shape; a pack in which ѕ is as frequent as ѓ has been padded. ALBANIAN is co-official. The Ohrid Framework Agreement of 2001 and then the Закон за употреба на јазиците of 2019 make any language spoken by at least 20% of the population official alongside Macedonian throughout the country — that threshold is met nationally by Albanian alone, and municipally by Turkish, Romani, Serbian, Bosnian and Aromanian where they pass 20% locally. HOW THIS PACK HANDLED THAT: every list here is in Macedonian Cyrillic and in Macedonian only, following this project's one-language-per-country rule. Tetovo is Тетово and not Tetovë, Gostivar is Гостивар and not Gostivar/Gostivari, Aračinovo is Арачиново and not Haraçinë. Where a proper noun is itself Albanian the Macedonian register form is used and it is the register form that is real: the football clubs Шкендија, Шкупи, Аресими and Башкими are Albanian-community clubs registered under exactly those Cyrillic names with the Football Federation. This means the pack will NOT round-trip an Albanian-language Macedonian dataset, and roughly a quarter of the country's addresses have an Albanian form this pack does not carry. That is a stated limit, not an oversight. Albanian has its own language pack territory in this project under `sq`; nothing was written there for North Macedonia and nothing needed to be.
locale: mk
---
македонски
албански
турски
ромски
српски
босански
влашки
