---
address: tanzania.education.university
description: University institutions approved to operate in Tanzania, from the Tanzania Commission for Universities register dated 26 March 2026 — the 12 public fully-fledged universities first, then the private ones, then the public and private university colleges. TCU is the statutory regulator under the Universities Act Cap. 346 and states that any institution not on its list is not authorised to teach, so this is an exhaustive register rather than a selection. THREE OF THEM ARE ZANZIBARI and are not branch campuses of anything on the mainland: the State University of Zanzibar is a public university of the Revolutionary Government, and Zanzibar University and Abdulrahman Al-Sumait University are private institutions on the islands — higher education is not a Union matter above a certain level, so Zanzibar runs its own. Some names carry their history: Kairuki University was Hubert Kairuki Memorial University until its recent renaming, Dar es Salaam Tumaini University was TUDARCo, and the Catholic University of Mbeya was CUCoM. The Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology in Arusha was founded as a pan-African postgraduate institute rather than a national one. Sokoine University of Agriculture at Morogoro and Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences both began as faculties of the University of Dar es Salaam, which is the oldest, founded 1961 as a college of the University of London. Marked locale: en because TCU registers and prints these names in English, which is the language of Tanzanian higher education even though the country runs on Swahili below it — that division, Swahili for government and primary school, English for university and the higher courts, is the shape of Tanzania's bilingualism and this file is on the English side of it.
locale: en
---
University of Dar es Salaam
Sokoine University of Agriculture
Open University of Tanzania
State University of Zanzibar
Mzumbe University
Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology
Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences
Ardhi University
University of Dodoma
Mbeya University of Science and Technology
Moshi Cooperative University
Mwalimu Nyerere University of Agriculture and Technology
Kairuki University
Abdulrahman Al-Sumait University
St. Augustine University of Tanzania
Zanzibar University
Tumaini University Makumira
Aga Khan University
Catholic University of Health and Allied Sciences
University of Arusha
St. Joseph University in Tanzania
Teofilo Kisanji University
Mwenge Catholic University
Muslim University of Morogoro
University of Iringa
St. John's University of Tanzania
Kampala International University in Tanzania
United African University of Tanzania
Ruaha Catholic University
Mwanza University
Catholic University of Mbeya
Dar es Salaam Tumaini University
Rabininsia University
University of Medical Sciences and Technology
Hikmah University of East Africa
KCMC University
Dar es Salaam University College of Education
Mkwawa University College of Education
Mbeya College of Health and Allied Sciences
Stefano Moshi Memorial University College
