---
address: cambodia.finance.currency
description: CAMBODIA HAS TWO CIRCULATING CURRENCIES AND A CONFIG THAT MODELS ONE IS MODELLING A DIFFERENT COUNTRY. The national currency is the រៀល (riel, ISO 4217 KHR, symbol ៛ U+17DB), and the ដុល្លារអាមេរិក (US dollar, USD, $) circulates beside it as legal tender in practice — not as a foreign currency someone might hold, but as the money most prices above a few thousand riel are quoted in. Rents, salaries, hotel bills, cars, university fees and most bank deposits are in dollars; market food, tuk-tuk fares, petrol by the litre, utility bills and everything under about a dollar are in riel. The two are joined by a rate that is not a legal peg but is fixed in daily practice at 4,000 riel to the dollar, stable for decades and used arithmetically by every shopkeeper in the country, so the working rule is that a cash transaction is quoted in dollars and CHANGE UNDER A DOLLAR COMES BACK IN RIEL: pay $3 for a $2.50 item and you get 2,000៛. That is why the National Bank asked banks in June 2020 to stop distributing $1, $2 and $5 notes — the small-denomination gap is the riel's job, and an ATM today offers either $100 notes or riel. WHAT THIS MEANS FOR A SCHEMA. A Cambodian money column needs a CURRENCY FLAG, always: an amount of 25 is $25 or 25៛ and those differ by four orders of magnitude, and a data set that drops the flag cannot be repaired afterwards because both values are plausible. Riel amounts are effectively integers — ISO 4217 gives KHR two minor units and the សេន (sen) is nominally the hundredth, but the sen has not circulated since the 1980s, the smallest note is 100៛, and a riel price with decimals is a conversion artefact. THE SEN IS DELIBERATELY NOT IN THE LIST BELOW: an address that emits it one draw in three would make a dead unit look like a third of Cambodian money, and there are two circulating units, not three. Dollar amounts carry the usual two. See cambodia.finance.amountRiel and cambodia.finance.amountUsd for how each is written, and cambodia.finance.priceDual for the combined form a Cambodian receipt actually prints. The riel dates from 1980 in its present form: the Khmer Rouge abolished money entirely between 1975 and 1979 and blew up the National Bank, so Cambodia has a four-year hole in its monetary history and no personal financial record survives across it.
locale: km
---
រៀល
ដុល្លារអាមេរិក
