---
address: zimbabwe.finance.currency
description: THE CURRENCIES ZIMBABWE ACTUALLY USES, and the reason NO ZIMBABWEAN MONEY COLUMN MAY CARRY A BARE AMOUNT. Zimbabwe is a multi-currency country by law: the ZiG (Zimbabwe Gold, ISO 4217 ZWG, in circulation since 8 April 2024) and the United States dollar are BOTH legal tender at the same time, in the same shop, on the same day, and the US dollar carries the clear majority of transactions — commonly put above 80%. So a Zimbabwean price, salary, invoice line or account balance is meaningless without its unit attached, and the two units are not close: the ZiG opened at 13.56 to the dollar and was past 25 within a year. A figure of 500 could be a week's groceries or a month's rent depending on a marker that is not in the number. This is not a quirk of one bank's export; it is the ordinary condition of Zimbabwean data, and it is why no generator in this pack emits an amount. HOW THE COUNTRY GOT HERE, because it explains why historic data is a minefield. The original Zimbabwe dollar died of hyperinflation and was abandoned in 2009 after prices doubled roughly daily at the peak and a 100-trillion-dollar note was printed; from 2009 the country simply used other people's money — chiefly the US dollar, with the South African rand and the Botswana pula circulating alongside. In 2016 the Reserve Bank issued "bond notes" pegged at par to the US dollar, which did not hold. In February 2019 the RTGS dollar, later the second Zimbabwe dollar (ZWL), was introduced, and it lost value continuously until it was retired. On 5 April 2024 the ZiG was announced, gold- and reserve-backed, converting ZWL balances at about 2,250 ZWL to 1 ZiG. FOUR consequences for data: an amount from before 2009 is in a currency that no longer exists and at a scale nothing else uses; an amount from 2009-2019 is almost certainly US dollars even where the field is unlabelled; an amount from 2019-2024 is ZWL unless marked USD; and an amount after April 2024 is ZWG or USD and cannot be guessed. The government has said it intends the ZiG to become the sole currency, with 2030 named as a target, so this list is expected to shorten rather than lengthen. The rand and pula are listed because they still circulate in the border districts — the rand in Beitbridge and Matabeleland South, the pula around Plumtree — not because they are legal tender everywhere.
locale: en
---
ZiG
US dollar
South African rand
Botswana pula
