---
address: bosnia_and_herzegovina.finance.currency
description: THE CONVERTIBLE MARK AND ITS SUBDIVISION, and the formatting rule a Bosnian money column has to follow. The currency is the konvertibilna marka (ISO 4217 BAM, numeric 977), written KM in Latin and КМ in Cyrillic, divided into 100 fening. HOW IT IS WRITTEN: the symbol goes AFTER the amount with a space, the decimal separator is a COMMA and the thousands separator a full stop, so one thousand two hundred and thirty-four marks and fifty-six fening is "1.234,56 KM" and never "KM 1,234.56". Getting that backwards produces a figure a thousand times wrong and it will parse cleanly, which is why it is worth stating. The ISO code sometimes appears in place of the symbol in banking output — "1.234,56 BAM" — but KM is what a shop, a payslip and an invoice use. THE RATE IS FIXED AND HAS NEVER MOVED. Bosnia runs a currency board: the Zakon o Centralnoj banci Bosne i Hercegovine of 1997 requires every mark in circulation to be backed by convertible foreign reserves and fixes the rate, originally one mark to one Deutsche Mark, and since 1999 to the euro at 1 EUR = 1.95583 KM, the DM's own conversion rate carried over unchanged. It has held since the note entered circulation on 22 June 1998 and there is no float, no band and no devaluation in the series — so unlike the dinar next door, a BAM figure can be converted to euro at a constant and a historic Bosnian amount needs no exchange-rate lookup. The name is the settlement it was: "convertible" because the point was a currency both entities and all three peoples would accept, replacing the Bosnian dinar, the Croatian kuna and the Yugoslav dinar that had been circulating in three different parts of one country, and "mark" because the Deutsche Mark was what people actually trusted and used. The notes carry Latin on one side and Cyrillic on the other, and two designs were printed, one for each entity, differing only in which script leads — the same denomination, the same value, legal tender everywhere. This file emits the unit NAMES; no generator in this pack emits an amount.
locale: bs
---
konvertibilna marka
fening
