---
address: bosnia_and_herzegovina.language
description: THE THREE OFFICIAL LANGUAGES AND TWO SCRIPTS OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA, and the decision every other file in this pack is written under. Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian are all official, all equal, and none is subordinate to the others; the Dayton constitution names no single state language and the Constitutional Court's "constituent peoples" decision of 2000 forced both entities to make all three official on their whole territory, which is why the Republika Srpska constitution and the Federation constitution now say the same thing. Two SCRIPTS are equally official — Latin and Cyrillic — and they are not tied to a language one to one: Croatian is written in Latin only, Bosnian in Latin in every practical setting, and Serbian in both, so the script line and the language line do not lie on top of each other. In practice Republika Srpska's institutions publish in Serbian in CYRILLIC, and the Federation's in Bosnian and Croatian in Latin. THE DECISION THIS PACK MAKES: every generated value is LATIN, and it is Latin because Latin is the one script all three languages can be written in and all three peoples read, while Cyrillic is used by one. That is the opposite of what the Serbian pack decided for Serbia, and the reason is different too — Serbia is digraphic in ONE language with a mechanical one-to-one mapping, so either script serves; Bosnia is digraphic across THREE languages, and Cyrillic would misrepresent every Croatian value in the pack. Where the two scripts genuinely produce different official strings, this pack gives the Cyrillic form its own address rather than mixing scripts inside a column: see bosnia_and_herzegovina.geo.cityCyrillic, which is the Republika Srpska subset of the city list written the way Republika Srpska writes it. No list in this pack mixes scripts, because no Bosnian register does. THE LANGUAGE TAG: files whose values are ordinary Latin place names, institutions and clubs carry `locale: bs`. That tag is a property of the STRINGS, not a claim that Bosnian outranks the other two — a Latin BiH town name is the same string in all three languages, and `bs` is the tag that names it without picking a side between hrvatski and srpski. The one file tagged `locale: sr` is the Cyrillic city list, because those values really are Serbian. Where the same institution has an official name in more than one language the pack picks one and records the others in the description: Kanton 10 is also Hercegbosanska županija, Sveučilište u Mostaru is not Univerzitet u Mostaru, and a kanton in Bosnian is a županija in Croatian. Nothing was written into data/packs/bs/ for this country and nothing needed to be: the bs pack is a bare locale stub, and every value here is a property of the PLACE.
locale: bs
---
bosanski
hrvatski
srpski
