---
address: ghana.docs.ghanaCard
description: THE GHANA CARD PIN — GHA-123456789-0 — issued by the National Identification Authority, and since 2021 the number the whole Ghanaian state is keyed to. It is the tax number, the SSNIT number, the number a SIM card is registered against, the number a bank account is opened with and the number on the passport application, all at once; nothing else in this pack matters as much. THE FINAL CHARACTER IS A CHECK DIGIT AND IT IS NOT COMPUTED HERE. That is not a gap in this file, it is the honest state of the world, and it is worth being precise about which half is known. What is published: the NIA's own FAQ gives the shape as the code GHA "followed by ten digits (GHA-000000000-0)", the last of those ten being the checksum, and every independent description of the format agrees the check character is a digit rather than a letter. What is NOT published: the algorithm. The NIA states only that the checksum is used internally to validate a PIN at creation; it has never released the weights, the modulus or a test vector, and no reverse-engineering of it has been published either. So there is nothing here to implement and nothing to verify against, and a plausible mod-11 invented to fill the space would be worse than no checksum at all, because it would produce numbers that LOOK verified and would reject real Ghana Cards. Verification of a Ghana Card in Ghana means querying the NIA's instant-verification service, not doing arithmetic. Contrast ghana.finance.sortCode, where the structure is published and honest, and note that no Ghanaian identifier in this pack carries a checkable check digit — that is a real property of the country, not an omission. TWO FURTHER TRAPS. The prefix is not always GHA: a non-citizen resident's card carries THEIR country's three-letter ICAO code in the same position, so a Ghana Card can legitimately begin with another country's letters, and a validator hard-coding GHA will reject legally issued cards. And the PIN is not the CARD NUMBER — the card itself carries a separate document number that changes when the card is reissued, while the PIN is for life.
generator: tdc
locale: en
---
<gen type="regex" value="GHA-[0-9]{9}-[0-9]"/>
