---
address: armenia.language
description: The languages of Armenia, in Armenian, and the note that explains how everything else in this pack is spelled. THE SCRIPT. Armenian is written in an alphabet of its own, devised by Mesrop Mashtots around 405, encoded at U+0530-U+058F with the ligature և at U+0587 and the dram sign ֏ at U+058F. It is not related to any other script and it has punctuation of its own: the sentence ends with ։ (U+0589 ARMENIAN FULL STOP, վերջակետ), which looks like a colon and is not one; a question is marked with ՞ (U+055E) and an exclamation with ՜ (U+055C), and BOTH ARE PLACED ABOVE THE VOWEL OF THE STRESSED SYLLABLE OF THE WORD BEING ASKED OR EXCLAIMED, not at the end of the sentence, so «Ինչպե՞ս ես» carries its question mark inside the second word. ՝ (U+055D) is a pause mark, ՛ (U+055B) an emphasis mark, ՚ (U+055A) an apostrophe, ֊ (U+058A) the Armenian hyphen, ՟ (U+055F) an abbreviation mark. Two traps for code. First, և is a single character and its upper case is TWO characters, ԵՎ — toUpperCase on «և» does not round-trip, and a name-casing routine that assumes a 1:1 mapping will corrupt any Armenian word containing it, which is a great many of them since և is the ordinary word for "and". Second, real Armenian text very often substitutes the Latin colon U+003A for the Armenian full stop U+0589, and the Republic's own legal database does it: counting the characters of the official incorporation of the law on holidays (ՀՕ-200) on arlis.am gives 31 Latin colons and ZERO U+0589, while the Armenian comma U+055D appears 24 times and the ligature և 20 — so the state's own publisher gets the comma and the ligature right and the full stop wrong, and a corpus check that treats U+0589 as required will reject the government's own text. WHICH ARMENIAN. This pack is EASTERN ARMENIAN in the REFORMED orthography — the 1922/1940 Soviet spelling reform that the Republic of Armenia still uses and that its registers, statutes and road signs are written in. Surnames and the institution names derived from them therefore end in -յան: Աբովյան, Թումանյան, Նալբանդյան, Սարգսյան. The Western Armenian of the diaspora, and Eastern Armenian as written by Iranian-Armenians, keep the classical Mesropian orthography and write the same ending -եան: Սարգսեան, Աբովեան. The two are the same name; the same person's passport and their Beirut or Los Angeles community record will not match on a string comparison. In Latin script the same split shows as -yan against -ian, which is why Sargsyan and Sarkissian are one surname. WHAT THIS PACK DOES NOT HOLD. There is no hy language pack in this project, and a country pack is not a language pack: nothing here supplies Armenian given names, surnames, street words, month names or job titles, and none of that was written into data/packs/ for Armenia. What is here is what is true of the PLACE — its towns, its provinces, its postcodes, its identifiers, its banks, its courts. Russian has no official status in Armenia and is the country's dominant second language all the same; Yezidi is the largest minority language, spoken by the 31,077 Yezidis the 2022 census counted, and Article 20 of the Constitution makes Armenian the state language while guaranteeing minorities the use of theirs.
locale: hy-am
---
հայերեն
ռուսերեն
եզդիերեն
անգլերեն
ասորերեն
քրդերեն
հունարեն
ուկրաիներեն
