---
description: English filler sentences from public-domain books (Project Gutenberg); see data/sources/en/text/README.md
locale: en
---
In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how in the world she was to get out again.
After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
"How can I have done that?" she thought.
Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the shore.
"But who is to give the prizes?" quite a chorus of voices asked.
"You insult me by talking such nonsense!"
Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan!
"Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?"
Let me see--how is it to be managed?
"I'm afraid I am, sir," said Alice; "I can't remember things as I used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!"
And she thought of herself, "I wish the creatures wouldn't be so easily offended!"
"I don't believe it," said the Pigeon; "but if they do, why then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say."
"I shall sit here," he said, "on and off, for days and days."
"Talking of axes," said the Duchess, "chop off her head!"
"Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?"
"You'll see me there," said the Cat, and vanished.
"It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being invited," said the March Hare.
"It was the best butter," the March Hare meekly replied.
"I don't know what you mean," said Alice.
"Exactly so," said the Hatter: "as the things get used up."
"Nobody asked your opinion," said Alice.
Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a door leading right into it.
"Idiot!" said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and, turning to Alice, she went on, "What's your name, child?"
"It's--it's a very fine day!" said a timid voice at her side.
He got behind Alice as he spoke.
However, she did not like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.
Alice looked up, and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded, frowning like a thunderstorm.
"I'll tell it her," said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow tone: "sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've finished."
"What was that?" inquired Alice.
"That's enough about lessons," the Gryphon interrupted in a very decided tone: "tell her something about the games now."
"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.
So they got their tails fast in their mouths.
And the Gryphon added "Come, let's hear some of your adventures."
"Yes, I think you'd better leave off," said the Gryphon: and Alice was only too glad to do so.
"They're putting down their names," the Gryphon whispered in reply, "for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial."
"It isn't mine," said the Hatter.
"But what did the Dormouse say?" one of the jury asked.
The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a low voice, "Your Majesty must cross-examine this witness."
"It's the oldest rule in the book," said the King.
The White Rabbit put on his spectacles.
"Who cares for you?" said Alice, (she had grown to her full size by this time.) "You're nothing but a pack of cards!"
But when the son looked at the horse, he thought it a great pity to put the leathern saddle upon it.
But the people said 'No,' unless he would bestow all his money upon the rascals and buy their liberty.
What would I give to have such a prize!'
How could it be otherwise with such a travelling companion as he had at last got?
Then he took the string in his hand, and drove off the pig by a side path; while Hans went on the way homewards free from care.
Meantime he began to be tired, and hungry too, for he had given away his last penny in his joy at getting the cow.
He prayed, he wept, he sorrowed, but all in vain.
'Heaven forbid!' said the ass, 'come with us Master Chanticleer; it will be better, at any rate, than staying here to have your head cut off!
So from this time forward Sultan had all that he could wish for.
The straw, however, began to burn, broke in two pieces, and fell into the stream.
She looked so beautiful that he could not take his eyes off her, so he stooped down and gave her a kiss.
'There,' cried the sparrow, 'thou cruel villain, thou hast killed my friend the dog.
'Not wretch enough yet!' said the sparrow; 'thy cruelty shall cost thee thy life yet!' and away she flew.
Then the youngest daughter said again, 'I am sure all is not right--did not you hear that noise?
What does your wife want?'
'Well, what would she have now?' said the fish.
And before her stood princes, and dukes, and earls: and the fisherman went up to her and said, 'Wife, are you emperor?'
Then they went to bed: but Dame Ilsabill could not sleep all night for thinking what she should be next.
Bear, you will have to pay for that!'
'What nonsense,' thought the princess, 'this silly frog is talking!
We will set it beneath the altar, and not touch it until we are really in need of it.'
I never heard the name in my life, I'll wager anything it is not in the calendar!'
The king of a great land died, and left his queen to take care of their only child.
Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it, Sadly, sadly, would she rue it.'
'All on our way A visit to pay To Mr Korbes, the fox, today.'
Then said a straw, 'I will lay myself across, and you may pass over upon me.'
My wife saw your rampion from the window, and felt such a longing for it that she would have died if she had not got some to eat.'
He escaped with his life, but the thorns into which he fell pierced his eyes.
They must be followed instantly to get them back again.'
The cook, however, came up to them, and when she saw the pond she lay down by it, and was about to drink it up.
It had to go into his pocket with the cheese.
Have you not strength enough to hold the weak twig?'
He was therefore honourably received, and a special dwelling was assigned him.
They laid themselves down to sleep again, and then the tailor threw a stone down on the second.
Before the wedding the tailor was to catch him a wild boar that made great havoc in the forest, and the huntsmen should give him their help.
And when the old folks had fallen asleep, he got up, put on his little coat, opened the door below, and crept outside.
They walked the whole night long, and by break of day came once more to their father's house.
And as they were so weary that their legs would carry them no longer, they lay down beneath a tree and fell asleep.
When Hansel and Gretel came into her neighbourhood, she laughed with malice, and said mockingly: 'I have them, they shall not escape me again!'
And once Gretel was inside, she intended to shut the oven and let her bake in it, and then she would eat her, too.
The man had not known one happy hour since he had left the children in the forest; the woman, however, was dead.
She remembered nothing more until she awoke and found herself in a beautiful meadow, full of sunshine, and with countless flowers blooming in every direction.
Presently she came to the apple-tree.
The wolf thought to himself: 'What a tender young creature! what a nice plump mouthful--she will be better to eat than the old woman.
And scarcely had the wolf said this, than with one bound he was out of bed and swallowed up Red-Cap.
She did not feel that she could trust him, and she could not look at him nor think of him without an inward shudder.
If I did not take pity on you and save you, you would be lost.'
The bridegroom arrived and also a large company of guests, for the miller had taken care to invite all his friends and relations.
So they said, 'Well, we cannot say we have not got what we wished for, and, little as he is, we will love him dearly.'
They journeyed on till it began to be dusky, and then the little man said, 'Let me get down, I'm tired.'
At this the thieves were frightened, and said, 'Softly, softly!
Then the parson himself was frightened; and thinking the cow was surely bewitched, told his man to kill her on the spot.
'My necklace,' replied the maiden.
She killed two fowls, scalded them, plucked them, put them on the spit, and towards evening set them before the fire, that they might roast.
The guest heard the sharpening, and hurried down the steps again as fast as he could.
The little calf always remained standing like one which was eating, and the cow-herd said: 'It will soon run by itself, just look how it eats already!'
After this the miller saw the skin in which the raven was, lying on the ground, and asked: 'What have you there?'
The peasant replied: 'He says that the Devil is hiding outside there in the closet on the porch.'
When the barrel began to roll, the shepherd cried: 'I am quite willing to be mayor.'
So she turned round; and as she had run a good way and was tired, she walked home leisurely to cool herself.
'Go into the garden and dig where I tell you, and you will find the yellow buttons: I dare not go myself.'
'How can you say so?' said she; 'I am sure you never told me not.'
Your stepsister has long deserved death; tonight when she is asleep I will come and cut her head off.
She put on her many-league boots, in which she covered an hour's walk at every step, and it was not long before she overtook them.
Of all the ladies in the land, Who is fairest, tell me, who?'
Then the queen was very much frightened; for she knew that the glass always spoke the truth, and was sure that the servant had betrayed her.
Now the apple was so made up that one side was good, though the other side was poisoned.
Scarcely were the words out of the boy's mouth, when everything was there that he had wished for.
So he summoned all the huntsmen together, and bade them go out into the forest with him.
At length a man came from a distance and wooed her, who was called Hans; but he stipulated that Clever Elsie should be really smart.
After Hans had gone away, she cooked herself some good broth and took it into the field with her.
I have saved up my three years' earnings and have it all safe in my pocket.'
'No,' said he, 'I do not ask my life; only to let me play upon my fiddle for the last time.'
Haste ye, haste ye!--pick, pick, pick!'
So the silly girl cut off her great toe, and thus squeezed on the shoe, and went to the king's son.
Prince! prince! take home thy bride, For she is the true one that sits by thy side!'
So he turned on to a side path and the ant-king cried out to him: 'We will remember you--one good turn deserves another!'
The wretch often disguises himself, but you will know him at once by his rough voice and his black feet.'
Soon afterwards the old goat came home again from the forest.
And when he got to the well and stooped over the water to drink, the heavy stones made him fall in, and he drowned miserably.
He looked at the workmanship; there was not one false stitch in the whole job; all was so neat and true, that it was quite a masterpiece.
The mother was angry at this, but she answered, 'Yes, when he comes out of school.'
'Well, he likes being there, and he told me he should be away quite six weeks; he is well looked after there.'
The wife went in and fetched the shoes.
'Ah, do not go!' cried the wife.
'What a wonderful thing!' said the king; 'I have seen many strange things, but such a monster as this I never saw.
Then he pushed him in head first, tied up the sack, and soon swung up the searcher after wisdom dangling in the air.
'Took her nothing, she gave me something.'
'Where is the bacon, Hans?'
'Never mind, will do better.'
Then all who heard this rejoiced, and the lord of the castle said he would adopt him as a son if he accomplished it successfully.
'Is that all?' said the fox.
'Then come with me, and be a star-gazer.
The eldest wished for pearls; the second for jewels; but the third, who was called Lily, said, 'Dear father, bring me a rose.'
'No,' said the sun, 'I have not seen it; but I will give thee a casket--open it when thy hour of need comes.'
But the fox managed to tie his legs together and bound all so hard and fast that with all his strength he could not set himself free.
She did draw him up, but when he came near the edge, she stretched down her hand and wanted to take the blue light away from him.
'At this moment, none,' answered the soldier; 'you can return home, only be at hand immediately, if I summon you.'
And again the princess was compelled to do servant's work until cock-crow.
Long after this, a man was making his way through the wood when he heard a raven calling, and he followed the sound of the voice.
You are not eating or drinking anything, do you want to kill yourself?'
So he fetched his map, and looked for the castle, but could not find it.
When therefore she came to the castle gate she saw him, and cried aloud for joy.
So they had to spend the night with the goose.
They told him that their father was very ill, and that they were afraid nothing could save him.
So he laid himself down, and sleep fell upon him unawares, so that he did not wake up till the clock was striking a quarter to twelve.
Then he told him everything; how his brothers had cheated and robbed him, and yet that he had borne all those wrongs for the love of his father.
The king said: 'That cannot be true!
The king thought something had happened to his dear huntsman, ran up to him, wanted to help him, and drew his glove off.
The boat, however, did not sink, for the good fairy took care of her friend, and soon raised the boat up again, and it went safely on.
Then he showed them the mark, and they knew that what he had said was true.
Why then does this enchantment still seem to bind me?'
The lord was willing, and let both of them have a seat in the carriage, and they all drove away together.
'Yes,' said they, 'she is beautiful indeed, but still 'tis a pity that her brothers should have been lost for her sake.'
'No, thank you, miss,' said the fox, 'what is Mrs Fox doing?'
'Is Mrs Fox not at home?'
Cut open the dead bird, take out its heart and keep it, and you will find a piece of gold under your pillow every morning when you rise.
So he went away to try and find the castle of his friends; and after wandering about a few days he luckily found it.
'They are always saying: "It makes me shudder, it makes me shudder!"
The sexton, however, remained standing motionless that the boy might think he was a ghost.
I did not know who it was, and I entreated him three times either to speak or to go away.'
Then the man saw that he would not get the fifty talers that day, and went away saying: 'Such a youth has never come my way before.'
Already many men had gone into the castle, but as yet none had come out again.
Then he looked round and saw a great bed in the corner.
'Wait,' said he, 'I will just stoke up the fire a little for you.'
When it grew late, six tall men came in and brought a coffin.
'Softly, softly, do not talk so big.
'Then,' said the king, 'you have saved the castle, and shall marry my daughter.'
Then the king said, 'You have sung so well, that I will give you my daughter for your wife.'
At last they came to a small cottage.
So she ran home and told him all.
This lasted for many years, when an unknown huntsman announced himself to the king as seeking a situation, and offered to go into the dangerous forest.
She knew nothing about it, and sought the key, but it was gone.
He raised himself up quickly, but the whole of the hair of his head was already golden and shone like the sun.
He put his cap on with all haste, and gathered wild field-flowers and bound them together.
'That you shall have, and still more than you ask for.'
'That I may catch the king's daughter's golden apple.'
'Yes,' answered he, 'that indeed you can.
So they put her into the coach, and took her home to the king's palace.
'But how did you get the ring that was in the soup?' asked the king.
Snow-white and Rose-red kept their mother's little cottage so neat that it was a pleasure to look inside it.
A short time afterwards the mother sent her children into the forest to get firewood.
'I am not such a fool!' cried the dwarf; 'don't you see that the accursed fish wants to pull me in?'
He was still cursing when a loud growling was heard, and a black bear came trotting towards them out of the forest.
The Adventure of the Engineer's Thumb X.
I rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own.
"It came by the last post," said he.
His eyes sparkled, and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud from his cigarette.
His dress was rich with a richness which would, in England, be looked upon as akin to bad taste.
"Then, pray consult," said Holmes, shutting his eyes once more.
I know that she will do it.
I sat down beside the fire, however, with the intention of awaiting him, however long he might be.
Seldom goes out at other times, except when she sings.
I only caught a glimpse of her at the moment, but she was a lovely woman, with a face that a man might die for.
"You don't mind breaking the law?"
"Then you may entirely rely on me."
It must be where she can lay her hands upon it.
After all, I thought, we are not injuring her.
It lay between that and her bedroom, and I was determined to see which.
We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door.
"Mr. Sherlock Holmes, I believe?" said she.
Yet, with all this, you made me reveal what you wanted to know.
"Your Majesty has something which I should value even more highly," said Holmes.
I did not gain very much, however, by my inspection.
All red-headed men who are sound in body and mind and above the age of twenty-one years, are eligible.
'You see it is really confined to Londoners, and to grown men.
'I perceive that all is as it should be.
Vincent Spaulding did what he could to cheer me up, but by bedtime I had reasoned myself out of the whole thing.
He answered that the name was new to him.
Holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excitement.
Sherlock Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked it all over, with his eyes shining brightly between puckered lids.
"Yes, it would be as well."
His brain is as cunning as his fingers, and though we meet signs of him at every turn, we never know where to find the man himself.
"I must really ask you to be a little more quiet!" said Holmes severely.
Holmes shot the slide across the front of his lantern and left us in pitch darkness--such an absolute darkness as I have never before experienced.
"There are three men waiting for him at the door," said Holmes.
There was the end of this tangled clue.
"You reasoned it out beautifully," I exclaimed in unfeigned admiration.
"Indeed, your example is an unfortunate one for your argument," said Holmes, taking the paper and glancing his eye down it.
"You've heard about me, Mr. Holmes," she cried, "else how could you know all that?"
He never did wish us to go anywhere.
Very retiring and gentlemanly he was.
And why could he not write?
You did not know where to look, and so you missed all that was important.
She had written in a hurry and dipped her pen too deep.
"Who was he, then, and what was his object in deserting Miss Sutherland?"
"I let you know, then, that I have caught him!"
She was flattered by the gentleman's attentions, and the effect was increased by the loudly expressed admiration of her mother.
Have just been wired for from the west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy.
The more featureless and commonplace a crime is, the more difficult it is to bring it home.
He was much excited, without either his gun or his hat, and his right hand and sleeve were observed to be stained with fresh blood.
"Many men have been hanged on far slighter evidence," I remarked.
I can assure you that it has nothing to do with the sad tragedy which followed.
"You have, no doubt, already formed your conclusions from the newspapers," he said.
"And your father?" asked Holmes.
I marked the spot upon my own head.
It was with his barmaid wife that he had spent the last three days in Bristol, and his father did not know where he was.
"That McCarthy senior met his death from McCarthy junior and that all theories to the contrary are the merest moonshine."
A mole could trace it, and there it vanishes among the reeds.
"The murder was done with it."
It was mere chance that he was within earshot.
He had even smoked there.
"I am a dying man," said old Turner.
Even when she was just a baby her wee hand seemed to lead me down the right path as nothing else had ever done.
But that my girl should be entangled in the same meshes which held me was more than I could suffer.
Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his conjecture, however, for there came a step in the passage and a tapping at the door.
The young man pulled his chair up and pushed his wet feet out towards the blaze.
There was nothing else save the five dried pips.
On the fourth day after the new year I heard my father give a sharp cry of surprise as we sat together at the breakfast-table.
You will ask me why I did not dispose of it?
Beyond the mention of pips, I do not see that it helps us much.
Then he lit his pipe, and leaning back in his chair he watched the blue smoke-rings as they chased each other up to the ceiling.
In the case of Pondicherry, seven weeks elapsed between the threat and its fulfilment, in Dundee it was only some three or four days.
On receiving this the victim might either openly abjure his former ways, or might fly from the country.
We sat in silence for some minutes, Holmes more depressed and shaken than I had ever seen him.
Then he sealed it and addressed it to "Captain James Calhoun, Barque Lone Star, Savannah, Georgia."
I sat up in my chair, and my wife laid her needle-work down in her lap and made a little face of disappointment.
Might I not escort her to this place?
But I must owe something.
It is the vilest murder-trap on the whole riverside, and I fear that Neville St. Clair has entered it never to leave it more.
Both he and the Lascar stoutly swore that no one else had been in the front room during the afternoon.
It was Neville St. Clair's coat, and not Neville St. Clair, which lay uncovered as the tide receded.
"I am delighted to see you," said she, pressing my hand warmly.
If it had been written straight off, and then blotted, none would be of a deep black shade.
"He only, as I understand, gave an inarticulate cry?"
"Oh, yes, I am not joking," he continued, seeing my look of incredulity.
"I should like to see him very much."
The sleeper half turned, and then settled down once more into a deep slumber.
My father was a schoolmaster in Chesterfield, where I received an excellent education.
I threw open the window, reopening by my violence a small cut which I had inflicted upon myself in the bedroom that morning.
I beg that you will look upon it not as a battered billycock but as an intellectual problem.
These are the more patent facts which are to be deduced from his hat.
"Not the Countess of Morcar's blue carbuncle!"
Of course it is a nucleus and focus of crime.
A touch of red in nose and cheeks, with a slight tremor of his extended hand, recalled Holmes' surmise as to his habits.
"Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden."
"You'll never persuade me to believe that."
"Well, then, ask Mrs. Oakshott for it."
"Well then," said he, "my real name is James Ryder."
"It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it," said he in a crackling voice.
I went out, as if on some commission, and I made for my sister's house.
Kill it and take it with you.'
I suppose that I am commuting a felony, but it is just possible that I am saving a soul.
Her features and figure were those of a woman of thirty, but her hair was shot with premature grey, and her expression was weary and haggard.
"The name is familiar to me," said he.
I am a light sleeper, and it has awakened me.
The chimney is wide, but is barred up by four large staples.
"You have been cruelly used," said Holmes.
So tall was he that his hat actually brushed the cross bar of the doorway, and his breadth seemed to span it across from side to side.
"He seems a very amiable person," said Holmes, laughing.
"And the lady, I fancy, is Miss Stoner," observed Holmes, shading his eyes.
A small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which the three bedrooms opened.
Dr. Grimesby Roylott's chamber was larger than that of his step-daughter, but was as plainly furnished.
Both Miss Stoner and I gazed at him in astonishment.
"I knew that we should find a ventilator before ever we came to Stoke Moran."
Holmes was for the moment as startled as I.
Far away we could hear the deep tones of the parish clock, which boomed out every quarter of an hour.
Across his lap lay the short stock with the long lash which we had noticed during the day.
The metallic clang heard by Miss Stoner was obviously caused by her stepfather hastily closing the door of his safe upon its terrible occupant.
I took it up and glanced at it.
I fainted when it was done, and I think that I must have been senseless for a long time.
He brought up a card, too, with the name of 'Colonel Lysander Stark' engraved upon it.
I simply want your opinion about a hydraulic stamping machine which has got out of gear.
These good people were absolutely ignorant that their land contained that which was quite as valuable as a gold-mine.
Now and then I hazarded some remark to break the monotony of the journey, but the colonel answered only in monosyllables, and the conversation soon flagged.
I paced up and down the room, humming a tune under my breath to keep up my spirits and feeling that I was thoroughly earning my fifty-guinea fee.
This is only where we compress it.
The ceiling was only a foot or two above my head, and with my hand upraised I could feel its hard, rough surface.
If she were ill-used, then at any risks I was determined to go back to her assistance.
There was one about three miles off.
"I think I could lay my finger on it," said Holmes quietly.
"Yes, sir!" said the station-master.
I read nothing except the criminal news and the agony column.
One by one the management of the noble houses of Great Britain is passing into the hands of our fair cousins from across the Atlantic.
"Good-day, Lord St. Simon," said Holmes, rising and bowing.
"Now, what is your own impression as to the young lady's--your wife's character?"
She was passing the front pew at the time, and it fell over into the pew.
"And she was seen walking with this very woman afterwards?"
There was a parallel instance in Aberdeen some years back, and something on very much the same lines at Munich the year after the Franco-Prussian War.
"Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found this in it?"
"And over here is what appears to be the fragment of a hotel bill, which interests me deeply."
I can hardly see how the lady could have acted otherwise, though her abrupt method of doing it was undoubtedly to be regretted.
After that came a long newspaper story about how a miners' camp had been attacked by Apache Indians, and there was my Frank's name among the killed.
I slipped out, put on my things, and followed him.
You see we have already arrived, by a process of exclusion, at the idea that she might have seen an American.
He was dressed in a sombre yet rich style, in black frock-coat, shining hat, neat brown gaiters, and well-cut pearl-grey trousers.
We waited, all curiosity, until with another effort he braced himself to tell his story.
However, it was too late to alter the matter now, so I locked it up in my private safe and turned once more to my work.
I have never denied him a wish.
Are you sure that everything is fastened?'
I roared, shaking him by the shoulder.
I called in the inspector and gave him into custody.
What was he doing there at all?
She was rather above the middle height, slim, with dark hair and eyes, which seemed the darker against the absolute pallor of her skin.
"Were they all fastened this morning?"
Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bureau.
The banker wrung his hands.
I could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for satisfaction than his words alone would imply.
With a dazed face the banker made out the required check.
His wicked lust for gold kindled at the news, and he bent her to his will.
I could distinguish the outline of an instep where the wet foot had been placed in coming in.
I knew my man, however, and I clapped a pistol to his head before he could strike.
But, indeed, if you are trivial, I cannot blame you, for the days of the great cases are past.
As I came in he gave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly to Miss Stoper.
In dress now, for example.
Next day I was inclined to think that I had made a mistake, and by the day after I was sure of it.
"It would cease to be a danger if we could define it," said he.
It was an ideal spring day, a light blue sky, flecked with little fleecy white clouds drifting across from west to east.
"Let us have everything in its due order."
More than once I have surprised her in tears.
I confess that I was disappointed.
As it emerged into the moonshine I saw what it was.
His cheeks were red, his brow was all crinkled with anger, and the veins stood out at his temples with passion.
I have no doubt at all that he had left it there.
I could not live there longer without some advice.
You were chosen, doubtless, as resembling her in height, figure, and the colour of your hair.
No sound came from within, and at the silence Holmes' face clouded over.
"Better close the front door," cried Holmes, and we all rushed down the stairs together.
"And brought Miss Hunter down from London in order to get rid of the disagreeable persistence of Mr. Fowler."
Take almost any Frenchman, except the late M. de Maupassant, and watch him laboriously piling up strokes in the hope of giving a complete impression.
Elizabeth of course belongs to the_ allegro or allegra _division of the army of Venus.
Nonsense, how can you talk so!
Mr. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. Bingley.
"What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?" cried he.
He had entertained hopes of being admitted to a sight of the young ladies, of whose beauty he had heard much; but he saw only the father.
Mrs. Bennet had seen her eldest daughter much admired by the Netherfield party.
So high and so conceited, that there was no enduring him!
Between him and Darcy there was a very steady friendship, in spite of a great opposition of character.
"Yes; but he seemed to like his second better."
"Remember, Eliza, that he does not know Jane's disposition as you do."
"I am going to open the instrument, Eliza, and you know what follows."
My mind was more agreeably engaged.
"Can I have the carriage?" said Jane.
"Is this a hint to me, Lizzy," said her father, "to send for the horses?"
Jane was by no means better.
With a renewal of tenderness, however, they repaired to her room on leaving the dining-parlour, and sat with her till summoned to coffee.
"It is amazing to me," said Bingley, "how young ladies can have patience to be so very accomplished as they all are."
"You may depend upon it, madam," said Miss Bingley, with cold civility, "that Miss Bennet shall receive every possible attention while she remains with us."
What an agreeable man Sir William is, Mr. Bingley--is not he? so much the man of fashion! so genteel and so easy!
Mr. Bingley was unaffectedly civil in his answer, and forced his younger sister to be civil also, and say what the occasion required.
"It is a rule with me, that a person who can write a long letter with ease cannot write ill."
"I see your design, Bingley," said his friend.
At that moment they were met from another walk by Mrs. Hurst and Elizabeth herself.
She could not win him, however, to any conversation; he merely answered her question and read on.
"Mr. Darcy is not to be laughed at!" cried Elizabeth.
"Do let us have a little music," cried Miss Bingley, tired of a conversation in which she had no share.
Why, Jane--you never dropped a word of this--you sly thing!
Mr. Collins was punctual to his time, and was received with great politeness by the whole family.
It is a pity that great ladies in general are not more like her.
The attention of the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by him.
When the card tables were placed, he had an opportunity of obliging her, in return, by sitting down to whist.
Wickham only shook his head.
But she contented herself with--"And one, too, who had probably been his own companion from childhood, connected together, as I think you said, in the closest manner."
The usual inquiries as to his success were made by the latter.
I think it is no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening engagements.
To find a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate!
"What think you of books?" said he, smiling.
"Mr. Bingley does not know Mr. Wickham himself."
Nothing that she could say, however, had any influence.
She owed her greatest relief to her friend Miss Lucas, who often joined them, and good-naturedly engaged Mr. Collins's conversation to herself.
And now nothing remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the violence of my affection.
Mrs. Bennet rang the bell, and Miss Elizabeth was summoned to the library.
Charlotte's reply was spared by the entrance of Jane and Elizabeth.
He joined them on their entering the town, and attended them to their aunt's, where his regret and vexation and the concern of everybody were well talked over.
The idea of his returning no more Elizabeth treated with the utmost contempt.
Elizabeth would wonder, and probably would blame her; and though her resolution was not to be shaken, her feelings must be hurt by such a disapprobation.
It was very strange that he should come to Longbourn instead of to Lucas Lodge; it was also very inconvenient and exceedingly troublesome.
"I leave it to yourself to determine," said Mr. Bennet.
They will ruin your happiness.
What sister would think herself at liberty to do it, unless there were something very objectionable?
They had frequently been staying with her in town.
It is as often applied to feelings which arise only from a half hour's acquaintance, as to a real, strong attachment.
Seriously, I would have you be on your guard.
It is on your account that he has been so frequently invited this week.
My visit was not long, as Caroline and Mrs. Hurst were going out.
She would not even wish for any renewal of his attentions.
He could tell her nothing new of the wonders of his presentation and knighthood; and his civilities were worn out, like his information.
Oh, what hours of transport we shall spend!
We dine at Rosings twice every week, and are never allowed to walk home.
I would advise you merely to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest--there is no occasion for anything more.
You ought all to have learned.
Perhaps she is full young to be much in company.
Easter was approaching, and the week preceding it was to bring an addition to the family at Rosings, which in so small a circle must be important.
I am confident that she would have performed delightfully.
"Perhaps," said Darcy, "I should have judged better had I sought an introduction, but I am ill-qualified to recommend myself to strangers."
"Mr. Collins appears very fortunate in his choice of a wife."
He certainly looked at her friend a great deal, but the expression of that look was disputable.
But in matters of greater weight, I may suffer from the want of money.
"He only told me what I have now told you."
Elizabeth was surprised, but said not a word.
But I have other provocations.
Nor am I ashamed of the feelings I related.
But it was not till the evening of the dance at Netherfield that I had any apprehension of his feeling a serious attachment.
I knew it myself, as it was known to Miss Bingley; but her brother is even yet ignorant of it.
But last summer he was again most painfully obtruded on my notice.
As to his real character, had information been in her power, she had never felt a wish of inquiring.
How could she deny that credit to his assertions, in one instance, which she had been obliged to give in the other?
You know I always speak my mind, and I cannot bear the idea of two young women travelling post by themselves.
His affection was proved to have been sincere, and his conduct cleared of all blame, unless any could attach to the implicitness of his confidence in his friend.
Elizabeth made no objection: the door was then allowed to be shut, and the carriage drove off.
Well, but now for my news: it is about dear Wickham; too good for the waiter, is not it?
Dear me! we had such a good piece of fun the other day at Colonel Forster's!
She dreaded seeing Wickham again, and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible.
"I never thought Mr. Darcy so deficient in the appearance of it as you used to do."
I told my sister Philips so the other day.
The dejection was almost universal.
It is not of peculiar, but of general evils, which I am now complaining.
They could have been understood only by her mother, who might have felt nearly the same.
Kitty was the only one who shed tears; but she did weep from vexation and envy.
The period of expectation was now doubled.
Elizabeth's mind was too full for conversation, but she saw and admired every remarkable spot and point of view.
Her aunt asked her, smilingly, how she liked it.
This was praise of all others most extraordinary, most opposite to her ideas.
Mrs. Reynolds anticipated Miss Darcy's delight, when she should enter the room.
Her coming there was the most unfortunate, the most ill-judged thing in the world!
For a few moments, indeed, she felt that he would probably strike into some other path.
Elizabeth was not comfortable; that was impossible; but she was flattered and pleased.
I could hardly help laughing aloud sometimes.
Nothing occurred between them that could justify the hopes of his sister.
Elizabeth soon saw that she was herself closely watched by Miss Bingley, and that she could not speak a word, especially to Miss Darcy, without calling her attention.
But I am willing to hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood.
Our distress, my dear Lizzy, is very great.
Darcy was fixed in astonishment.
Say that urgent business calls us home immediately.
Could he expect to be noticed again by the regiment, after such an affront to Colonel Forster?
"But you see that Jane," said her aunt, "does not think so ill of Wickham, as to believe him capable of the attempt."
It was a comfort to Elizabeth to consider that Jane could not have been wearied by long expectations.
Elizabeth lifted up her eyes in amazement, but was too much oppressed to make any reply.
What a good joke it will be!
They were forced to conclude, that he had no pleasing intelligence to send; but even of that they would have been glad to be certain.
It was not known that Wickham had a single relation with whom he kept up any connection, and it was certain that he had no near one living.
I am not afraid of being overpowered by the impression.
"What is there of good to be expected?" said he, taking the letter from his pocket; "but perhaps you would like to read it."
"No; but it must be done soon."
Their taking her home, and affording her their personal protection and countenance, is such a sacrifice to her advantage as years of gratitude cannot enough acknowledge.
How I long to see her! and to see dear Wickham too!
Elizabeth received her congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this folly, took refuge in her own room, that she might think with freedom.
He protested that she should receive from him no mark of affection whatever on the occasion.
The principal purport of his letter was to inform them, that Mr. Wickham had resolved on quitting the militia.
Their reception from Mr. Bennet, to whom they then turned, was not quite so cordial.
That is the place to get husbands.
My uncle and aunt and I were to go together; and the others were to meet us at the church.
It was exactly a scene, and exactly among people, where he had apparently least to do, and least temptation to go.
But it was two or three days before he could get from her what he wanted.
Your father was gone, your uncle at home, and, as I said before, they had a great deal of talk together.
His behaviour to us has, in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire.
Oh, how heartily did she grieve over every ungracious sensation she had ever encouraged, every saucy speech she had ever directed towards him!
"I dare say she will; she has got over the most trying age."
The loss of her daughter made Mrs. Bennet very dull for several days.
Elizabeth did not know what to make of it.
Both sisters were uncomfortable enough.
People did say, you meant to quit the place entirely at Michaelmas; but, however, I hope it is not true.
He found her as handsome as she had been last year; as good-natured, and as unaffected, though not quite so chatty.
Mr. Darcy was almost as far from her as the table could divide them.
Mrs. Long said so too, for I asked her whether you did not.
Here, Sarah, come to Miss Bennet this moment, and help her on with her gown.
Bingley of course returned with him to dinner; and in the evening Mrs. Bennet's invention was again at work to get everybody away from him and her daughter.
I always said it must be so, at last.
It was too early in the morning for visitors; and besides, the equipage did not answer to that of any of their neighbours.
