---
address: armenia.tax.tin
description: ՀՎՀՀ — հարկ վճարողի հաշվառման համար, the Armenian taxpayer registration number. EIGHT digits, no letters, no separators, no prefix, and the same eight digits for a company and for a sole trader and for an individual — Armenia does not run a separate company number beside a tax number the way Poland runs REGON beside NIP, so the ՀՎՀՀ on an invoice, on a court filing and in the State Register is one and the same number. It is issued by the State Register when the entity is registered, with one exception that matters if you are building banking data: a COMMERCIAL BANK gets its ՀՎՀՀ from the Central Bank of Armenia, not from the State Register. A real published example, from ARARATBANK OJSC's own bank-details page: 02500518. THE CHECK DIGIT IS REAL AND ITS RULE IS NOT PUBLISHED. The State Revenue Committee's own filing with the OECD says it in one sentence — "TIN consists of 8 digits; no other symbols could be used. First seven digits are next serial number, 8th digit is check digit and calculated based on the previous 7 digits" — and the Armenian law on taxpayer registration says the formula for the check digit, and the distribution of numbers across administrative-territorial units, are set by the tax authority rather than by statute. The tax authority has not published either. One real number is not a corpus: a single eight-digit sample would be reproduced by chance by roughly a tenth of all candidate weightings, so nothing can be recovered from it, and this file therefore draws all eight digits rather than computing the last. Compare armenia.product.barcode in this same pack, which DOES carry a real computed check digit verified against 27 published numbers — the difference between the two files is exactly the difference between a rule that is published and a rule that is not. Do not feed output of this file to a real ՀՎՀՀ validator and expect it to pass. Note also what the ՀՎՀՀ is NOT: it is not the ՀԾՀ. An individual has both — a ten-digit ՀԾՀ from the population register and, if they trade, an eight-digit ՀՎՀՀ from the tax service — and Armenian forms ask for them by name, so a schema with one "national id" field for Armenia is already wrong.
generator: tdc
locale: hy-am
---
<gen type="number" value="10000000..99999999"/>
