---
address: moldova.language
description: The languages of Moldova, in Romanian, and the note that explains why every value in this pack is written the way it is. THE STATE LANGUAGE IS ROMANIAN. Article 13 of the Constitution said "limba moldovenească" from 1994 until 16 March 2023, when Law 52/2023 replaced the term with "limba română" throughout the statute book, finishing what the Constitutional Court had begun in December 2013 when it ruled that the Declaration of Independence, which says Romanian, prevails over the Constitution where the two disagree. Moldova and Romania therefore share a language, which is why this country pack carries Romanian-language values and declares `locale: ro` on the files whose values are Romanian strings, leaning on the existing ro LANGUAGE pack for the words — strada, bulevardul, month names, given names — while holding here only what is true of the PLACE. Nothing was written into data/packs/ro/ for Moldova and nothing needed to be. Sharing a language is not sharing a country: the IDNP is not a CNP, the leu is not the leu, and MD-2001 is not a Romanian postcode. RUSSIAN is the second language of the country in every practical sense — the first language of a large minority, the working language of much of Chișinău business and of most of the left bank, and the language a great deal of Moldovan data is actually keyed in. It has no official status nationally: the 1989 law called it the language of interethnic communication, a 2020 law restoring a special status was struck down by the Constitutional Court in January 2021. GAGAUZ is official inside Gagauzia alongside Romanian and Russian under Law 344/1994, and is a Turkic language written in Latin script. WHAT THE LISTS IN THIS PACK DO AND DO NOT COVER: every list here is Romanian-only. Towns, raions, banks, universities, clubs and wineries are given in their official Romanian register forms and nowhere in their Russian, Gagauz, Ukrainian or Bulgarian forms, even where those are what people locally say and write — Comrat is Комрат and Komrat too, Bender is Бендеры, Bălți is Бельцы. That is a deliberate one-language-per-country rule, not an oversight, and it means this pack will not round-trip a Russian-language Moldovan dataset. Russian, Ukrainian and Bulgarian have language packs of their own in this project (ru, uk, bg); Gagauz has none.
locale: ro
---
română
rusă
ucraineană
găgăuză
bulgară
romani
