---
address: maldives.government.agency
description: Agencies, authorities, services and departments of the Maldivian state — the bodies that actually hold the records, as against the ministries that set policy (see maldives.government.ministry). Four of them are worth knowing before reading any Maldivian dataset. The Department of National Registration registers every birth and death and issues the identity card, so it is the source of maldives.docs.nationalId. The Maldives Inland Revenue Authority (MIRA) is a body separate from the finance ministry and issues every taxpayer number in the country, so it is the source of maldives.tax.tin. The Maldives Monetary Authority is the central bank and licenses the banks in maldives.finance.bank. And the Maldives Bureau of Statistics runs the census that the population weights throughout this pack come from. Two entries have no counterpart in most countries. The Maldives Zakat House administers the Islamic obligatory alms as a state function, with its own poverty register — a tax-like transfer that sits outside the tax system entirely. And the National Centre for Information Technology runs eFaas, the national digital identity, which is the login for essentially every government service; a Maldivian citizen's interaction with the state is mediated through one app to a degree few countries match. Note the shape of the state: a population of half a million supports a full set of national regulators — aviation, broadcasting, food and drug, capital markets, utilities — because being a sovereign state requires them regardless of size, so Maldivian agencies are numerous and small.
locale: dv-Latn
---
Maldives Inland Revenue Authority
Maldives Monetary Authority
Department of National Registration
Maldives Immigration
Maldives Customs Service
Maldives Police Service
Maldives National Defence Force
Maldives Correctional Service
Maldives Bureau of Statistics
Health Protection Agency
Maldives Food and Drug Authority
National Drug Agency
National Social Protection Agency
National Centre for Information Technology
National Cyber Security Agency
Environmental Regulatory Authority
Communications Authority of Maldives
Utility Regulatory Authority
Labour Relations Authority
Maldives Qualifications Authority
Maldives National Skills Development Authority
Maldives International Financial Services Authority
Capital Market Development Authority
Maldives Civil Aviation Authority
Maldives Transport Authority
Maldives Meteorological Service
Maldives Hydrographic Service
Maldives Marine Research Institute
Maldives Zakat House
Elections Commission
Civil Service Commission
Anti-Corruption Commission
Human Rights Commission of the Maldives
Judicial Service Commission
Auditor General's Office
Prosecutor General's Office
Attorney General's Office
Local Government Authority
Employment Tribunal
Dhivehi Language Academy
National Archives
Maldives Pension Administration Office
